FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20090409164835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
   
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 9, 2009, Norfolk Southern Corporation's ("NSC") wholly-owned subsidiary Norfolk Southern Railway Company ("NSR") completed the formation of its previously-announced joint venture with Pan Am Railways, Inc. ("Pan Am") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Boston and Maine Corporation ("B&M") and Springfield Terminal Railway Company ("Springfield Terminal") providing for, among other things, the formation of Pan Am Southern LLC ("PAS"), a newly formed railroad company in which each of Pan Am (through its B&M subsidiary) and NSR have a 50% equity interest.  The joint venture was formed pursuant to a transaction agreement, dated May 15, 2008, by and among NSR, Pan Am, B&M and Springfield Terminal, as amended by Letter Agreement dated October 21, 2008 (the "Transaction Agreement"), pursuant to which Pan Am agreed to transfer to PAS its 155-mile main line track that runs between Mechanicville, N.Y. and Ayer, Mass., along with 281 miles of secondary and branch lines, including trackage rights, in New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont (the "PAS Line") and NSR agreed to transfer cash and other property valued at $140 million to PAS, $87.5 million of which is to be invested within a three-year period in capital improvements on the PAS Line, such as track and signal upgrades and terminal expansions.  A more detailed description of the transactions related to the formation of the joint venture is set forth in the NSC's Form 8-K dated May 16, 2008.
            Pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, the parties entered into a limited liability company agreement governing PAS.  Pursuant to such agreement, PAS will be managed by a management committee, a capital project committee and a joint operating committee, each of which will be composed of an equal number of NSR and B&M representatives, and which together will determine future capital projects and oversee operations.  A copy of the limited liability company agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
              
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                           
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
                                                           
 
 
                                                            
    /s/ Howard D. McFadden            
                                                            Name:  Howard D. McFadden                                                             Title:    Corporate Secretary
Date:  April 9, 2009
 
 
                                                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1Formation and Continuation. 15
                  
1.2Name. 15
                  
1.3Purpose; Powers. 15
                  
1.4Principal Place of Business, Chief Executive Office and Registered Office. 15
                  
1.5Term.. 16
                  
1.6Filings; Agent for Service of Process. 16
                  
1.7Title to Property. 16
                  
1.8Payments of Individual Obligations. 17
                  
2.1Initial Capital Contributions. 17
                  
2.2Initial Capital Accounts. 17
                  
2.3Subsequent Capital Contributions. 17
                  
2.4Withdrawal and Return of Capital 17
                  
3.1Profits. 17
                  
3.2Losses. 18
                  
3.3Special Allocations. 18
                  
3.4Loss Limitation. 20
                  
3.5Other Allocation Rules. 20
                  
3.6Tax Allocations; Code Section 704(c). 21
                  
3.7Revaluation of Capital Accounts. 21
                  
3.8Membership Interests. 21
                  
4.1Distributions. 22
                  
4.2Priority Distributions. 22
                  
4.3Amounts Withheld. 22
                  
4.4Limitations on Distributions. 22
                  
4.5Distributions and Allocations in Respect of a Transferred Membership Interest 22
                  
5.1Manner of Operations. 23
                  
5.2Management Committee. 23
                  
5.3Committees of, or reporting to, the Management Committee. 24
                  
5.4Meetings of Management Committee. 25
                  
5.5Action by Unanimous Written Consent 26
                  
5.6Management Committee Decisions. 26
                  
5.7Budget and Business Plan; Investment Policies. 29
                  
5.8Officers. 29
                  
5.9Exculpation and Indemnification. 30
                  
5.10Fiduciary Duty; Exculpation. 31
                
5.11Interparty Matters. 31
                
5.12Industrial Development Projects. 31
                
6.1Rights or Powers. 32
                  
6.2Voting Rights. 32
                  
6.3Meetings of the Members. 32
                  
6.4Required Member Consents. 33
                  
6.5Member Compensation. 33
                  
6.6Members' Liability. 34
                  
6.7Partition. 34
                  
6.8Transactions Between a Member and the Company. 34
                  
6.9Other Instruments. 34
                  
6.10Advise of Changes. 34
                
6.11NS Change in Control. 34
                
7.1Accounting Books and Records. 35
                  
7.2Reports. 36
                  
7.3Tax Matters. 37
                  
8.1Amendments. 39
                  
9.1Restrictions on Transfers. 39
                  
9.2Permitted Transfers. 39
                  
9.3Conditions to Permitted Transfers. 40
                  
9.4Prohibited Transfers. 41
                  
9.5Rights of Unadmitted Assignees. 41
                  
9.6Admission of New and Substituted Members. 42
                  
9.7Representations Regarding Transfers; Legend. 43
                  
 
10.1Events of Default 43
                
10.2Remedies Upon an Event of Default 43
                
11.1Dissolution Events. 45
                
11.2Winding Up. 45
                
11.3Compliance With Certain Requirements of Regulations; Deficit Capital Accounts. 46
                
11.4Distributions in Kind. 46
                
11.5Rights of Members. 46
                
11.6Notice of Dissolution/Termination. 47
                
11.7Allocations During Period of Liquidation. 47
                
11.8Character of Liquidating Distributions. 47
                
11.9The Liquidator. 47
                
12.1Notices. 48
                
12.2Certificates. 49
                
12.3Binding Effect 50
                
12.4Time. 50
                
12.5Headings. 50
                
12.6Prior Agreements. 50
                
12.7Severability. 50
                
12.8Incorporation by Reference. 50
                
12.9Variation of Terms. 51
                
12.10Counterpart Execution. 51
              
12.11Third Party Beneficiaries. 51
              
12.12Governing Law... 51
              
12.13Confidentiality. 51
              
13.1Reference to JOC. 51
                
13.2Reference for Formal Dispute Resolution. 51
                
13.3Formal Dispute Resolution. 51
                
                This Limited Liability Company Agreement (this "Agreement") of Pan Am Southern LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), is entered into pursuant to and in accordance with the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the "Act") and shall be effective as of April 9, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Norfolk Southern Railway Company, a Virginia corporation (such corporation or any Permitted Transferee thereof, the "NS Member"), and Boston and Maine Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("B&M" and, together with any Permitted Transferee thereof, the "Pan Am Member"), as the Members pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
, the NS Member, Pan Am Railways, Inc. ("Pan Am"), B&M, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pan Am, and Springfield Terminal Railway Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pan Am ("Springfield Terminal", and together with Pan Am and B&M, the "Pan Am System Parties") have entered into a Transaction Agreement (the "Transaction Agreement"), dated as of May 15, 2008, which provides, among other things, for B&M to contribute an undivided interest in the railroad lines originally owned or operated by B&M or its Subsidiary, the Vermont & Massachusetts Railway, generally in New York, Vermont, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire (the "Line") and certain other related assets (together with the Line, the "Assets"), to the Company and for the NS Parent to cause the NS Member to make capital contributions to the Company as described in Schedule 2.2 of the Transaction Agreement, in each case in accordance with the provisions thereof;
                WHEREAS
, by executing this Agreement and the related Certificate of Formation and filing the Certificate of Formation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the parties hereto are hereby and thereby forming the Company; and
                WHEREAS
, the parties hereto desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth their rights and obligations as members of the Company.
                WHEREAS
, in consideration of the foregoing facts and the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                NOW, THEREFORE
                Capitalized words and phrases used in this Agreement have the following meanings:
means the American Arbitration Association.
                "AAA"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Acceptance Agreement"
Section 10.2(d)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Acceptance Period"
Section 10.2(c)
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Act"
means, with respect to any Member, the deficit balance, if any, in such Member's Capital Account as of the end of the relevant Fiscal Year, after giving effect to the following adjustments:
                "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit"
                (a)        Credit to such Capital Account any amounts which such Member is deemed to be obligated to restore pursuant to the penultimate sentences in Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5) of the Regulations; and
                (b)        Debit to such Capital Account the items described in Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(5) and 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(6) of the Regulations.
                The foregoing definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
means, with respect to any specified Person, (i) any other Person who, directly or indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, such specified Person, (ii) any other Person who is a director, officer, manager, member, partner or trustee of the specified Person or a Person described in clause (i) of this definition or any spouse of the specified Person or any such other Person, (iii) any relative of the specified Person or any other Person described in clause (ii) of this definition, or (iv) any Person of which the specified Person and/or any one or more of the Persons specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of this definition, individually or in the aggregate, beneficially own 10% or more of any class of Voting Securities.
                "Affiliate"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.  Words such as "herein," "hereinafter," "hereof," "hereto" and "hereunder" refer to this Agreement as a whole, unless the context otherwise requires.
                "Agreement"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Assets"
means that agreement dated as of April 9, 2009 by and between Springfield Terminal and the Company generally providing for the partial assignment of the Springfield Terminal operating rights over the tracks of Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority.
                "Assignment and Assumption Agreement Regarding Passenger Rail Operations"
means the independent registered public accounting firm from time to time engaged by the Company to audit its financial statements and results of operations.  The Auditors shall initially be Gray, Gray and Gray, LLP.  Successor Auditors shall be appointed by the Management Committee in accordance with .
                "Auditors"
Section 5.6
means that Ayer Switching Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between Springfield Terminal and the Company, generally governing the switching by the Company of certain railcars of Springfield Terminal.
                "Ayer Switching Agreement"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Introductory Paragraph.
                "B&M"
means, with respect to any Person, a Voluntary Bankruptcy or an Involuntary Bankruptcy (as each such term is defined herein).
                "Bankruptcy"
shall mean that bill of sale generally providing for the contribution to the Company by the Pan Am System Parties of all personal property included in the Assets.
                "Bill of Sale"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Budget"
Section 5.7(a)
means the business conducted by the Company, including owning, managing and maintaining the Assets, and making certain capital improvements to the same, and performing certain haulage and other freight railroad transportation services, generally as a private carrier.
                "Business"
means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City.
                "Business Day"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Business Plan"
Section 5.7(a)
means, with respect to any Member, the Capital Account maintained for such Member in accordance with the following provisions:
                "Capital Account"
                (a)        To each Member's Capital Account there shall be credited (1) such Member's Capital Contributions, (2) such Member's distributive share of Profits and any items in the nature of income or gain which are specially allocated pursuant to and (3) the amount of any Company liabilities assumed by such Member or which are secured by any Property distributed to such Member.  The principal amount of a promissory note which is not readily traded on an established securities market and which is contributed to the Company by the maker of the note (or a Member related to the maker of the note within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c)) shall not be included in the Capital Account of any Member until the Company makes a taxable disposition of the note or until (and to the extent) principal payments are made on the note, all in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(d)(2).
Section 3.3
                (b)        To each Member's Capital Account there shall be debited (1) the amount of money and the Gross Asset Value of any Property distributed to such Member pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, (2) such Member's distributive share of Losses and any items in the nature of expenses, deductions or losses which are specially allocated pursuant to and (3) the amount of any liabilities of such Member assumed by the Company or which are secured by any Property contributed by such Member to the Company.
Section 3.3
                (c)        In the event a Membership Interest is Transferred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the transferee shall succeed to the Capital Account of the transferor to the extent it relates to the Transferred Membership Interest.  
                (d)        In determining the amount of any liability for purposes of subparagraphs (a) and (b) above, there shall be taken into account Code Section 752(c) and any other applicable provisions of the Code and Regulations.
                The foregoing provisions and the other provisions of this Agreement relating to the maintenance of Capital Accounts are intended to comply with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b), and shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with such Regulations.  In the event the Management Committee shall determine that it is prudent to modify the manner in which the Capital Accounts or any debits or credits thereto (including, without limitation, debits or credits relating to liabilities which are secured by contributed or distributed property or which are assumed by the Company or any Members), are computed in order to comply with such Regulations, the Management Committee may make such modification, provided that it is not likely to have a material effect on the amounts distributed to any Person pursuant to upon the dissolution of the Company.  The Management Committee also shall (i) make any adjustments that are necessary or appropriate to maintain equality between the Capital Accounts of the Members and the amount of capital reflected on the Company's balance sheet, as computed for book purposes, in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(q) and (ii) make any appropriate modifications in the event unanticipated events might otherwise cause this Agreement not to comply with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b).
Section 11
means, with respect to any Member, the amount of money and the initial Gross Asset Value of any Property (other than money) contributed to the Company with respect to the Membership Interest in the Company held or purchased by such Member.
                "Capital Contribution"
means those capital expenditures relating to the Line as set forth in the Budgets (including any Rollover Budgets) approved in accordance with this Agreement.
                "Capital Project"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Capital Project Process"
Section 5.3(b)
means that Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Company, Springfield Terminal, B&M and NSR, generally concerning the construction of the Capital Projects and the hiring of the initial operators for certain specified facilities.
                "Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement"
means Depreciation attributable to the Assets contributed to the Company as described in Section 2.3 of the Transaction Agreement.
                "Capital Recovery Contributed Book Items"
                "" means depreciation and amortization that are allowed as a deduction for federal income-tax purposes and that relate solely to the tax basis of the Assets contributed to the Company as described in Section 2.3 of the Transaction Agreement as determined on the date of their contribution to the Company.
Capital Recovery Contributed Tax Deductions
                "" means (i) Depreciation attributable to the Assets purchased by the Company as described in Section 3 of the Transaction Agreement and attributable to the first $87,500,000 of Capital Projects to the extent such $87,500,000 is not allowed as a deductible expense for federal income-tax purposes, and (ii) expenses (including any and all deductions associated with Rev. Proc. 2002-65) attributable to the first $87,500,000 of Capital Projects allowed as a deductible expense for federal income-tax purposes.
Capital Recovery Purchased Book Items
                "" means expenses, depreciation, amortization, and other cost recovery deductions (including any and all deductions associated with Rev. Proc. 2002-65) that are allowed as a deduction for federal income-tax purposes and that relate solely (i) to the Assets purchased by the Company as described in Section 3 of the Transaction Agreement and (ii) to the first $87,500,000 of Capital Projects. 
Capital Recovery Purchased Tax Deductions
shall mean any of the following:  (i) a sale, exchange, transfer, assignment or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's Property or all or substantially all of the rights in the Company's Property; (ii) any condemnation or deeding in lieu of condemnation of all or substantially all of the Company's Property; (iii) any financing or refinancing of the Company's Property; (iv) any fire or other casualty to all or substantially all of the Company's Property to the extent that such funds are not paid to a lender or used to restore, rebuild or repair the Company Property; and (v) any other transaction the proceeds of which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are considered capital in nature.
                "Capital Transaction"
               
means the Certificate of Formation filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the Act to form the Company, as originally executed and amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time, as the context requires.
                "Certificate of Formation"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Claims"
Section 5.9(a)
shall be the date the initial Capital Contributions are made under .
                "Closing Date"
Section 2.1(a)
shall mean Canadian National Railway Company.
                "CN"
shall have the meaning given to that term in .
                "CoC Trackage Rights"
Section 6.11
means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
                "Code"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Committee Representative"
Section 5.2(b)
means the limited liability company formed pursuant to this Agreement and the Certificate of Formation and the limited liability company continuing the business of this Company in the event of dissolution of the Company as herein provided.
                "Company"
has the same meaning as the term, "partnership minimum gain," in Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(2) and 1.704-2(d).
                "Company Minimum Gain"
shall mean CSX Transportation, Inc.
                "CSX"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Damages"
Section 10.2(b)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Default Sale Notice"
Section 10.2(c)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Delaware Courts"
Section 13.3(a)
means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction allowable with respect to an asset for such Fiscal Year, except that if the Gross Asset Value of an asset differs from its adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes at the beginning of such Fiscal Year, Depreciation shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to such beginning Gross Asset Value as the federal income tax deprecation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction for such Fiscal Year bears to such beginning adjusted tax basis; provided, however, that if the adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes of an asset at the beginning of such Fiscal Year is zero, Depreciation shall be determined with reference to such beginning Gross Asset Value using any reasonable method selected by the Management Committee.
                "Depreciation"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Dispute"
Section 13.1
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Dissolution Event"
Section 11.1
shall have the meaning set forth in the Introductory Paragraph.
                "Effective Date"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
                "Exchange Act"
                means the fair market value as determined by unanimous mutual agreement reached by the Members, or in the event the Members are unable to agree, as determined by an independent investment banking firm or firms or, in the case of any asset or other item not customarily valued by an investment banking firm, a qualified independent appraiser of the type customarily engaged in the valuation thereof (a "Qualified Appraiser"), in accordance with the following procedure.  In the case of any event which gives rise to a requirement to determine "Fair Value" hereunder, the Management Committee shall be responsible for initiating the process by which Fair Value shall be determined as promptly as practicable, but in any event within twenty (20) days following such event and if the procedures contemplated herein in connection with determining Fair Value have not been complied with fully, then any such determination of Fair Value for any purpose hereunder shall be deemed to be preliminary and subject to adjustment pending full compliance with such procedures.  Upon the occurrence of an event requiring the determination of Fair Value, the Management Committee shall give each Member notice of such event, and the Members shall engage in direct good faith discussions to arrive at a mutually agreeable determination of Fair Value.  In the event the Members are unable to arrive at a mutually agreeable determination within thirty (30) days of the notice, an independent investment banking firm of national standing or Qualified Appraiser of national standing, as the case may be, selected by unanimous agreement of the Members shall make such determination and render such opinion.  The determination so made shall be conclusive and binding on the Members.  The fees and expenses of the investment banking firm or Qualified Appraiser retained for such purpose shall be paid by the Company.
"Fair Value"
means any of the following:
                "Fiscal Quarter"
                (a)        the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the earliest to follow the Closing Date of March 31, June 30 and September 30 of the year in which the Closing Date occurs,
                (b)        any subsequent three (3) month period commencing on each of January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 and ending on the last date before the next such date, and
                (c)        the period commencing on the immediately preceding January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1, as the case may be, and ending on the date on which all Property is distributed to the Members pursuant to .
Section 11
means any of the following:
                "Fiscal Year"
                (a)        the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on December 31 of the year in which the Closing Date occurs,
                (b)        any subsequent twelve (12) month period commencing on January 1, and
                (c)        the period commencing on the immediately preceding January 1, and ending on the date on which all Property is distributed to the Members pursuant to .
Section 11
shall mean Springfield Terminal, NSR, or such other freight rail common carrier that the Company, in accordance with the Agreement, admits to the entirety or any portion of the Line by way of haulage or trackage rights.
                "Freight Rail Common Carrier"
means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States of America, consistently applied.
                "GAAP"
means that individual so designated and appointed by the Railroad Operator who shall be responsible for directing the day-to-day operations, management and supervision of the Railroad Operator and shall be the single point of contact for the Members with respect to all such matters.
                "General Manager"
means with respect to any asset, the asset's adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes, except as follows:
                "Gross Asset Value"
                (a)        The initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed by a Member to the Company shall be the gross fair market value (taking Code Section 7701(g) into account) of such asset on the date of contribution as determined by the Management Committee.
                (b)        The Gross Asset Values of all Company assets shall be adjusted to equal their respective gross fair market values (taking Code Section 7701(g) into account), as determined by the Management Committee as of the following times: (A) the acquisition of an additional interest in the Company by any new or existing Member in exchange for more than a de minimis Capital Contribution; (B) the distribution by the Company to a Member of more than a de minimis amount of Company property as consideration for an interest in the Company; and (C) the liquidation of the Company within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g), provided that an adjustment described in clauses (A) and (B) of this paragraph shall be made only if the Management Committee reasonably determines that such adjustment is necessary to reflect the relative economic interests of the Members in the Company.
                (c)        The Gross Asset Value of any Company asset distributed to any Member shall be adjusted to equal the gross fair market value (taking Code Section 7701(g) into account) of such asset on the date of distribution as determined by the Management Committee.
                (d)        The Gross Asset Values of Company assets shall be increased (or decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted tax basis of such assets pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b), but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital Accounts pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)-(2)(iv)(m) and subparagraph (f) of the definition of "Profits" and "Losses"; provided, however, that Gross Asset Values shall not be adjusted pursuant to this subparagraph (d) to the extent that an adjustment pursuant to subparagraph (c) is required in connection with a transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment pursuant to this subparagraph (d).
                If the Gross Asset Value of an asset has been determined or adjusted pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c), such Gross Asset Value shall thereafter be adjusted by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset, for purposes of computing Profits and Losses.
shall mean the trackage rights granted pursuant to the Springfield Terminal Joint Use Agreement.
                "Harvard Trackage Rights"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Indemnified Parties"
Section 10.2(f)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Indemnified Persons"
Section 5.9
                shall have the meaning set forth in .
"Investment Policies"
Section 5.7(b)
               
shall mean a modification to the trackage owned or operated by the Company in order to permit new or expanded access to rail service by one or more new or potential rail service customer(s), which modification takes place on the property owned or operated by the Company, provided, however, that no bulk transload, intermodal, and an auto distribution facility shall be considered an Industrial Development Project.
                "Industrial Development Project"
means, with respect to any Person, without the consent or acquiescence of such Person, the entering of an order for relief or approving a petition for relief or reorganization or any other petition seeking any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or other similar relief under any present or future bankruptcy, insolvency or similar statute, law or regulation, or the filing of any such petition against such Person which petition shall not be dismissed within ninety (90) days, or without the consent or acquiescence of such Person, the entering of any order appointing a trustee, custodian, receiver or liquidator of such Person or of all or any substantial part of the Property of such Person which order shall not be dismissed within ninety (90) days.
                "Involuntary Bankruptcy"
means the Internal Revenue Service.
                "IRS"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Issuance Items"
Section 3.3(h)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Items"
Section 3.4
or shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Joint Operating Committee"
"JOC"
Section 5.3(c)
means, collectively, (i) the Transaction Agreement (ii) this Company Agreement, (iii) the NSR Joint Use Agreement, (iv) the Assignment and Assumption Agreement Regarding Passenger Rail Operations, (v) the Miscellaneous Assignment and Assumption Agreement, (vi) the Bill of Sale, (vii) the Transportation Agreement Assignment and Divisions Allocation Agreement, (viii) the Ayer Switching Agreement, (ix) the Springfield Terminal Joint Use Agreement, (x) the Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement, (xi) the Railroad Operating Agreement, and (xii) the Option Agreement.
                "JV Transaction Agreements"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Line"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Liquidation Period"
Section 11.7
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Liquidator"
Section 11.9(a)
shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of "Profits."
                "Losses"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Major Decision"
Section 5.6
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Management Committee"
Section 5.2(a)
means the Persons (i) who are referred to as such in the opening paragraph of this Agreement or who have become a new or substituted Member by acquisition of a Membership Interest pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and (ii) who have not ceased to be a Member. 
                "Members"
has the same meaning as the term "partner nonrecourse debt" in Section 1.704-2(b)(4) of the Regulations.
                "Member Nonrecourse Debt"
means an amount, with respect to each Member Nonrecourse Debt, equal to the Company Minimum Gain that would result if such Member Nonrecourse Debt were treated as a Nonrecourse Liability, determined in accordance with Section 1.704-2(i)(3) of the Regulations.
                "Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain"
has the same meaning as the term "partner nonrecourse deductions" in Sections 1.704-2(i)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(2) of the Regulations.
                "Member Nonrecourse Deductions"
means an ownership interest in the Company or any portion of or interest in such interest, including any and all benefits to which the holder of such interest may be entitled as provided in this Agreement, together with all obligations of such Person to comply with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the number of such Membership Interests being reflected on Exhibit C hereto.
                "Membership Interest"
means the Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated the date hereof, by and between Pan Am, on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries, including B&M and Springfield Terminal, and the Company.
                "Miscellaneous Assignment and Assumption Agreement"
means for any period the gross cash proceeds of the Company for such period (excluding Capital Contributions) less the portion thereof used to pay or establish reserves for all Company expenses, debt payments, capital improvements, replacements, and contingencies, all as determined by the Management Committee.  "Net Cash Flow" shall not be reduced by depreciation, amortization, cost recovery deductions, or similar allowances, but shall be increased by any reductions of reserves previously established pursuant to the first sentence of this definition.
                "Net Cash Flow"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Net Cash Flow Forecast"
Section 5.7(a)
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.704-2(b)(1) of the Regulations.
                "Nonrecourse Deductions"
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.704-2(b)(3) of the Regulations.
                "Nonrecourse Liability"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Notice"
Section 12.1
shall mean: (1) the establishment of a voting trust as described in 49 C.F.R. Part 1013 - Guidelines for the Proper Use of Voting Trusts, or any subsequent regulation, with regard to the acquisition by CSX or CN, or a subsidiary of either, of a controlling block of voting securities of the NS Member or any entity having direct or indirect control over the NS Member, including but not limited to the NS Parent; (2) the submission to the STB by CSX or CN, or a subsidiary of either, of any application, petition for exemption, or notice of exemption seeking approval, or exemption from approval, to effect a change in control of the NS Member or any entity having direct or indirect control over the NS Member; or (3) not taking into account the NS Member's Membership Interest in the Company, the sale, transfer or other distribution of all or substantially all of the assets of NSR to CSX or CN, or a subsidiary of either.
                "NS Change in Control"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
                "NS Member"
                shall have the meaning set forth in .
"NS Member's Membership Interests"
Section 3.8
means Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation and the ultimate parent of the NS Member.
                "NS Parent"
means Norfolk Southern Railway Company, a Virginia corporation and an operating subsidiary of the NS Parent.
                "NSR"
shall mean the Joint Use Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and between NSR, Springfield Terminal and the Company, generally providing for certain haulage and trackage rights.
                "NSR Joint Use Agreement"
means Persons designated as officers of the Company by the Management Committee for so long as any such Person remains an Officer in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
                "Officers"
shall mean that agreement dated as of May 1, 2008 by and among NSR, B&M and Pan Am generally concerning the grant of an option to NSR to acquire a certain percentage interest in the Assets.
                "Option Agreement"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Pan Am"
shall mean: (1) the establishment of a voting trust as described in 49 C.F.R. Part 1013 - Guidelines for the Proper Use of Voting Trusts, or any subsequent regulation, with regard to the acquisition of a controlling block of voting securities of the Pan Am Member, Pan Am, B&M or Springfield Terminal, or any entity having direct or indirect control over any of the same, including but not limited to the Pan Am Parent; (2) the submission to the STB (other than pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 11323(a)(4) where the only carriers involved are (a) one or more of the Pan Am Member, Pan Am, B&M or Springfield Terminal, or any entity having direct or direct control over any of the same, including but not limited to the Pan Am Parent, and (b) the Company) of any application, petition for exemption, or notice of exemption seeking approval, or exemption from approval, to effect a change in control of the Pan Am Member, Pan Am, B&M or Springfield Terminal or any entity having direct or indirect control over any of the same; (3) any Permitted Transfer as described in ; or (4) not taking into account the Pan Am Member's membership interest in the Company, the sale, transfer or other distribution of all or substantially all of the assets of the Pan Am Member, Pan Am, B&M or Springfield Terminal.
                "Pan Am Change in Control"
Section 9.2 clauses (f) or (g)
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Pan Am Member"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Pan Am Member's Membership Interests"
Section 3.8
shall mean Pan Am Systems, Inc., a Florida corporation, and the ultimate parent of the Pan Am Member.
                "Pan Am Parent"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Pan Am System Parties"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Permitted Transfer"
Section 9.2
means a transferee pursuant to a Permitted Transfer.
                "Permitted Transferees"
means an individual or a partnership, corporation, trust, association, limited liability company or other entity.
                "Person"
shall be each Member's Membership Interest as reflected on Exhibit A.
                "Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interest"
and means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the Company's taxable income or loss for such Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with Code Section 703(a) (for this purpose, all items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit required to be stated separately pursuant to Code Section 703(a)(1) shall be included in taxable income or loss), with the following adjustments (without duplication):
                "Profits"
"Losses"
                (a)        Any income of the Company that is exempt from federal income tax and not otherwise taken into account in computing Profits or Losses pursuant to this definition of "Profits" and "Losses" shall be added to such taxable income or loss;
                (b)        Any expenditures of the Company described in Code Section 705(a)(2)(B) or treated as Code Section 705(a)(2)(B) expenditures pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i), and not otherwise taken into account in computing Profits or Losses pursuant to this definition of "Profits" and "Losses" shall be subtracted from such taxable income or loss;
                (c)        In the event the Gross Asset Value of any Company asset is adjusted pursuant to subparagraphs (b) or (c) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, the amount of such adjustment shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the Gross Asset Value of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases the Gross Asset Value of the asset) from the disposition of such asset and shall be taken into account for purposes of computing Profits or Losses;
                (d)        Gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Property with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for federal income tax purposes shall be computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the Property disposed of, notwithstanding that the adjusted tax basis of such Property differs from its Gross Asset Value;
                (e)        In lieu of the depreciation, amortization, and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation for such Fiscal Year, computed in accordance with the definition of Depreciation;
                (f)         To the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Company asset pursuant to Code Section 734(b) is required, pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4), to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as a result of a distribution other than in liquidation of a Member's interest in the Company, the amount of such adjustments shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis) from the disposition of such asset and shall be taken into account for purposes of computing Profits and Losses; and
                (g)        Notwithstanding any other provision of this definition, any items which are specially allocated pursuant to shall not be taken into account in computing Profits or Losses. 
Section 3.3
                The amounts of the items of Company income, gain, loss, deduction or credit  available to be specially allocated pursuant to shall be determined by applying the rules analogous to those set forth in subparagraphs (a) through (g) above.
Section 3.3
means all real and personal property acquired by the Company, including cash, and any improvements thereto, and shall include both tangible and intangible property.
                "Property"
means those capital expenditures anticipated to be constructed over the three (3) year period commencing on the date hereof, as identified more specifically in Exhibit B.
                "Proposed Capital Projects"
shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of "Fair Value".
                "Qualified Appraiser"
means a Freight Rail Common Carrier or a passenger rail carrier.
                "Rail Carrier"
means the Railroad Operating Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and Springfield Terminal, generally concerning the railroad operating and administrative services provided by Springfield Terminal for the Company.
                "Railroad Operating Agreement"
means the Springfield Terminal or such other Person as the Management Committee may designate pursuant to this Agreement and the Railroad Operating Agreement, which shall be responsible for performing day-to-day railroad operations for the Company.
                "Railroad Operator"
means the Treasury Regulations, including temporary and proposed Regulations, promulgated under the Code, as such regulations are amended from time to time.
                "Regulations"
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Rollover Budget"
Section 5.7(a)
shall have the meaning set forth in .
                "Rules"
Section 13.3(b)
means the Securities Act of 1933.
                "Securities Act"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Springfield Terminal"
means the trackage rights agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among NSR, Springfield Terminal and the Company, generally providing for the grant, by the Company to Springfield Terminal, of certain trackage rights.
                "Springfield Terminal Joint Use Agreement"
shall mean the "tax matters partner," as that term is defined in Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code of the Company, with all of the rights, duties and powers provided for in Sections 6221 through 6234 of the Code.
                "Tax Matters Partner"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
                "Transaction Agreement"
means, as a noun, any voluntary or involuntary transfer, distribution, sale, pledge, assignment or hypothecation or other disposition and, as a verb, voluntarily or involuntarily to transfer, sell, pledge, assign or hypothecate or otherwise dispose of.
                "Transfer"
means that agreement dated as of April 9, 2009 generally providing for the assignment of existing customer transportation agreements and setting forth the respective divisions for transportation services to be provided by the Company under certain existing and future contract and tariff movements.
                "Transportation Agreement Assignment and Divisions Allocation Agreement"
means, with respect to any Person, any of the following:
                "Voluntary Bankruptcy"
               
                (a)        the inability of such Person generally to pay its debts as such debts become due, or an admission in writing by such Person of its inability to pay its debts generally or a general assignment by such Person for the benefit of creditors.
                (b)        the filing of any petition or answer by such Person seeking to adjudicate itself as bankruptcy or insolvent, or seeking for itself any liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of such Person or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking, consenting to, or acquiescing in the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for such Person or for any substantial part of its Property, or
                (c)        corporate action taken by such Person to authorize any of the actions set forth above.
shall mean any securities of any Person which vote generally in the election of directors.
                "Voting Securities"
of any Person means
                "Wholly-Owned Affiliate"
                (a)        an Affiliate of such Person one hundred percent (100%) of the voting stock or beneficial ownership of which is owned by such Person, or by any Person who, directly or indirectly, owns one hundred percent (100%) of the voting stock or beneficial ownership of such Person,
                (b)        an Affiliate of such Person who, directly or indirectly, owns one hundred percent (100%) of the voting stock or beneficial ownership of such Person, and
                (c)        any Wholly-Owned Affiliate of any Affiliate described in clause (a) or clause (b).
                .  The Members hereby agree to organize the Company as a limited liability company under and pursuant to the provisions of the Act and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  The rights and liabilities of the Members shall be as provided under the Act, the Certificate of Formation and this Agreement.
1.1             
Formation and Continuation
                .  The name of the Company shall be Pan Am Southern LLC and all business of the Company shall be conducted in such name or, in the discretion of the Management Committee, under any other name.
1.2        
Name
                 
1.3        
Purpose; Powers
.
                            (a)                .
Generally
                                                (i)                The purpose of the Company is to engage in the Business and in any other lawful activity for which a limited liability company may be organized under the Act.
                                                (ii)                The Company has the power to do any and all acts necessary, appropriate, proper, advisable, incidental or convenient to or in furtherance of the purposes of the Company set forth in and has, without limitation, any and all powers that may be exercised on behalf of the Company by the Management Committee pursuant to .
Section 1.3(a)
Section 5
                            (b)                . 
Carrier Status
                                                (i)                Notwithstanding the generality of , the Members intend that the Company shall be a rail carrier, as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C.  10101(5), that performs transportation services over the Line.
Section 1.3(a)
                                                (ii)                The Company may participate or appear in any rates, routes or divisions relating to any freight traffic whatsoever to, from and over the Line, and shall be entitled to or responsible for any freight charges relating to such freight traffic.  The Company may quote or establish any rate and service terms applicable to freight transportation services to, from or over the Line, enter into transportation contracts with persons, provide for freight transportation services to, from or over the Line, and undertake to perform any for-hire transportation services directly, in its own name or for its own account, for any person, subject to .
Section 5.6(xxi)
                .  The principal place of business and chief executive office of the Company shall be located at the offices of Pan Am Railways, 400 Amherst Street, Suite 405, Nashua, NH 03063, or in such other place as the Management Committee may determine from time to time.  The registered office of the Company in the State of Delaware initially is located at c/o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801.
1.4
        
Principal Place of Business, Chief Executive Office and Registered Office
                .  The term of the Company commenced on the date the Certificate of Formation was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in accordance with the Act and shall continue until the winding up and liquidation of the Company and its business is completed following a Dissolution Event, as provided in .
1.5
        
Term
Section 11
               
1.6
        
Filings; Agent for Service of Process
.
                            (a)                The Members shall promptly after the execution of this Agreement cause the Certificate of Formation to be filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in accordance with the provisions of the Act.  The Management Committee shall take, or cause to be taken, any and all actions reasonably necessary to perfect and maintain the status of the Company as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Delaware, including the preparation and filing of such amendments to the Certificate of Formation and such other assumed name certificates, documents, instruments and publications as may be required by law, including, without limitation, action to reflect:
                                                (i)                A change in the Company name,
                                                (ii)                A correction of false or erroneous statements in the Certificate of Formation or the desire of the Members to make a change in any statement therein in order that it shall accurately represent the agreement among the Members, or
                                                (iii)                A change in the time for dissolution of the Company if approved by the Members as evidenced by an amendment to this Agreement (approved as provided herein).
                            (b)               The Members and the Management Committee shall execute and cause to be filed original or amended certificates and shall take any and all other actions as may be reasonably necessary to perfect and maintain the status of the Company as a limited liability company or similar type of entity under the laws of any other jurisdictions in which the Company engages in business.
                            (c)                The registered agent for service of process on the Company in the State of Delaware shall be The Corporation Trust Company or any successor as appointed by the Members in accordance with the Act.
                            (d)               Upon the dissolution and completion of the winding up and liquidation of the Company in accordance with , the Management Committee (and, if necessary and requested by the Management Committee, the Members) shall promptly execute and cause to be filed certificates of cancellation, statements of intent to dissolve and articles of dissolution in accordance with the Act and the laws of any other jurisdictions in which the Management Committee deems such filing necessary or advisable.
Section 11
                  All Property owned by the Company shall be owned by the Company as an entity and no Member shall have any ownership interest in such Property in its individual name, and each Member's Membership Interests in the Company shall be personal property for all purposes.  At all times after the date hereof, the Company shall hold title to all of its Property in the name of the Company and not in the name of any Member.
1.7
        
Title to Property
.
                  The Company's credit and assets shall be used solely for the benefit of the Company and no asset of the Company shall be Transferred or encumbered for, or in payment of, any individual obligation of any Member.
1.8        
Payments of Individual Obligations
.
                .
2.1
        
Initial Capital Contributions
                            (a)               Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement and simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, (i) the NS Member has made the initial Capital Contribution described in of the Transaction Agreement and in that certain Funding Agreement dated April 9, 2009 among the Pan Am System Parties and the NS Member, and (ii) the Pan Am Member has made an initial Capital Contribution described in of the Transaction Agreement.
Section 2.2(a)
Section 2.3(a)
                            (b)               Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement and simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the Pan Am Member has also contributed or caused to be contributed to the Company, and the Company has assumed, the Assumed Liabilities (as such term is defined in Section 2.4 of the Transaction Agreement).
                .  The Company shall establish an individual Capital Account for each Member.  The Company shall determine and maintain each Capital Account in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv).  The initial Capital Accounts of the Members as of the date hereof are as reflected in Exhibit 2.2.
2.2
        
Initial Capital Accounts
                .
2.3
        
INTENTIONALLY OMITTED
                .  No Member shall withdraw any of its capital without the consent of the other Members, except upon the dissolution or liquidation of the Company to the extent provided in this Agreement.  Under circumstances requiring or permitting a return of any Capital Contribution, no Member shall have the right to receive property other than cash except as may be specifically provided in .
2.4
        
Withdrawal and Return of Capital
Section 11.2(d)
                .  After giving effect to the special allocations set forth in , Profits for any Fiscal Year shall be allocated to the Members as follows:
3.1
        
Profits
Section 3.3
                            (a)               First, Profits shall be allocated to each Member in an amount necessary to offset any previous allocations of Loss to such Member pursuant to .
Section 3.4
                            (b)               Second, Profits less any amounts allocated under shall be allocated to the Members in proportion to their respective Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interests.
Section 3.1(a)
                  After giving effect to the special allocations set forth in and subject to , Losses for any Fiscal Year shall be allocated to the Members in proportion to their Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interests.
3.2
        
Losses
.
Section 3.3
Section 3.4
                .  The following special allocations shall be made in the following order:
3.3
        
Special Allocations
                            (a)               .  Except as otherwise provided in Regulations Section 1.704-2(f), notwithstanding any other provision of this , if there is a net decrease in Company Minimum Gain during any Fiscal Year, each Member shall be specially allocated items of Company income and gain for such Fiscal Year (and, if necessary, subsequent Fiscal Years) in an amount equal to such Members share of the net decrease in Company Minimum Gain, determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(g).  Allocations pursuant to the previous sentence shall be made in proportion to the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Member pursuant thereto.  The items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-2(f)(6) and 1.704-2(j)(2).  This is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in Regulations Section 1.704-2(f) and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
Minimum Gain Chargeback
Section 3
Section 3.3(a)
                            (b)               .  Except as otherwise provided in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4), notwithstanding any other provision of this , if there is a net decrease in Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to a Member Nonrecourse Debt during any Fiscal Year, each Member who has a share of the Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to such Member Nonrecourse Debt, determined in accordance with Section 1.704-2(i)(5) of the Regulations, shall be specially allocated items of Company income and gain for such Fiscal Year (and, if necessary, subsequent Fiscal Years) in an amount equal to such Member's share of the net decrease in Member Nonrecourse Debt, determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4).  Allocations pursuant to the previous sentence shall be made in proportion to the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Member pursuant thereto.  The items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-2(i)(4) and 1.704-2(j)(2).  This is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
Member Minimum Gain Chargeback
Section 3
Section 3.3(b)
                            (c)               .  In the event any Member unexpectedly receives any adjustments, allocations, or distributions described in Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii), 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii), or 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii), items of Company income and gain shall be specially allocated to such Member in an amount and manner sufficient to eliminate, to the extent required by the Regulations, the Adjusted Capital Account Deficit of the Member as quickly as possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this shall be made only if and to the extent that the Member would have an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit after all other allocations provided for in this have been tentatively made as if this were not in the Agreement.
Qualified Income Offset
(d)(4)
(d)(5)
(d)(6)
Section 3.3(c)
Section 3
Section 3.3(c)
                            (d)               .  In the event any Member has a deficit Capital Account at the end of any Fiscal Year which is in excess of the sum of the amount such Member is deemed obligated to restore pursuant to the penultimate sentences of Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5), each such Member shall be specially allocated items of Company income and gain in the amount of such excess as quickly as possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this shall be made only if and to the extent that such Member would have a deficit Capital Account in excess of such sum after all other allocations provided for in this have been made as if and this were not in the Agreement.
Gross Income Allocation
Section 3.3(d)
Section 3
Section 3.3(c)
Section 3.3(d)
                            (e)               .  Nonrecourse Deductions for any Fiscal Year shall be specially allocated to the Members in proportion to their respective Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interests.
Nonrecourse Deductions
                            (f)               .  Any Member Nonrecourse Deductions for any Fiscal Year shall be specially allocated to the Member who bears the economic risk of loss with respect to the Member Nonrecourse Debt to which such Member Nonrecourse Deductions are attributable in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(1).
Member Nonrecourse Deductions
                            (g)               .  To the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Company asset, pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b) is required, pursuant to Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)()(2) or 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)()(4), to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as the result of a distribution to a Member in complete liquidation of such Member's interest in the Company, the amount of such adjustment to Capital Accounts shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis) and such gain or loss shall be specially allocated to the Members in accordance with their Percentage Interests in the event Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)()(2) applies, or to the Member to whom such distribution was made in the event Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)()(4) applies.
 Section 754 Adjustments
m
m
m
m
                            (h)               .  Any income, gain, loss or deduction realized as a direct or indirect result of the issuance of a Membership Interest by the Company to a Member (the "Issuance Items") shall be allocated among the Members so that, to the extent possible, the net amount of such Issuance Items, together with all other allocations under this Agreement to each Member shall be equal to the net amount that would have been allocated to each such Member if the Issuance Items had not been realized.
Allocations Relating to Taxable Issuance of a Membership Interest
                            (i)               .  To the extent any compensation paid to any Member by the Company, including any fees payable by the Company to any Member, is determined by the Internal Revenue Service not to be a guaranteed payment under Code Section 707(c) or is not paid to the Member other than in its capacity as a partner (Member) within the meaning of Code Section 707(a), the Member shall be specially allocated gross income of the Company in an amount equal to the amount of that compensation.
Guaranteed Payments
                            (j)               .  The Capital Recovery Contributed Book Items shall be specially allocated ninety-nine (99) percent to the Pan Am Member and one (1) percent to the NS Member. 
Capital Recovery Contributed Book Items
                            (k)               .  The Capital Recovery Purchased Book Items shall be specially allocated one (1) percent to the Pan Am Member and ninety-nine (99) percent to the NS Member. 
Capital Recovery Purchased Book Items
                            (l)                 Gain for each item of Property arising from a Capital Transaction (computed by reference to Gross Asset Value) in excess of any gain allocated pursuant to and above shall be allocated to a Member up to and in proportion to the excess of (i) the amounts allocated to the Member pursuant to and above, over (ii) the sum of (A) amounts previously allocated to such Member pursuant to this , (B) the amount of gain allocated to the Member pursuant to and above, and (C) such Member's remaining share of Company Minimum Gain and Member Nonrecourse Minimum Gain.  Any remaining gain from a Capital Transaction shall be allocated between the Members pursuant to .  Gain for tax purposes shall be consistent with the allocations under this and .
Special Allocations of Gain from Capital Transactions.
Sections 3.3(a)
(b)
Sections 3.3(j)
(k)
Section 3.3(l)
Sections 3.3(a)
(b)
Section 3.1
Section 3.3(l)
Section 3.6
                .  Losses allocated pursuant to , together with Capital Recovery Contributed Book Items and Capital Recovery Purchased Book Items allocated pursuant to and (the "Items"), shall not exceed the maximum amount of Losses and Items that can be allocated without causing any Member to have an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit at the end of any Fiscal Year.  In the event some but not all of the Members would have Adjusted Capital Account Deficits as a consequence of an allocation of Losses and Items pursuant to and and , the limitation set forth in this shall be applied on a Member by Member basis and Losses and Items not allocable to any Member as a result of such limitation shall be allocated to the other Members in accordance with the positive balances in such Member's Capital Accounts (including the adjustment described in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit") so as to allocate the maximum permissible Losses and Items to each Member under Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii).  Subsequent Profits shall be specially allocated hereunder to charge back any Losses and Items disproportionately allocated to the Members pursuant to this , pro rata in accordance with the amount of such excess Losses and Items allocated hereunder and not charged back hereby. 
3.4
        
Loss Limitation
Section 3.2
Sections 3.3(j)
3.3(k)
Section 3.2
Sections 3.3(j)
3.3(k)
Section 3.4
(d)
Section 3.4
               
3.5
        
.
Other Allocation Rules
                            (a)               For purposes of determining the Profits, Losses, or any other items allocable to any period, Profits, Losses, and any such other items shall be determined on a daily, monthly, or other basis, as determined by the Management Committee using any permissible method under Code Section 706 and the Regulations thereunder.
                            (b)               The Members are aware of the income tax consequences of the allocations made by this and hereby agree to be bound by the provisions of this in reporting their shares of Company income and loss for income tax purposes.
Section 3
Section 3
                            (c)               Solely for purposes of determining a Member's proportionate share of the "excess nonrecourse liabilities" of the Company within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.752-3(a)(3), the Members' interests in Company Profits are in proportion to their Percentage Interests.
                            (d)               To the extent permitted by Regulations Section 1.704-2(h)(3), the Management Committee shall endeavor to treat distributions of Net Cash Flow as having been made from the proceeds of a Nonrecourse Liability or a Member Nonrecourse Debt only to the extent that such distributions would cause or increase an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit for any Member.
                            (e)               In the event the IRS adjusts the amount of any fees, interest, or other amounts paid to a Member or an Affiliate of a Member pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreement between the Company and such Member or Affiliate, and such amounts are or were treated as deductible by the Company, whether in reliance upon Section 162, 163, 707(a) or 707(c) of the Code or otherwise, then
                                                (i)               In the case of an upward adjustment, there shall be allocated to the Member who received (or whose Affiliate received) or is treated as having received such payments an amount of loss or deduction for the taxable year in or with respect to which such fees, interest or other amounts were adjusted equal to the amount of the increase of such fees, interest, or other amounts, and
                                                (ii)               In the case of a downward adjustment, there shall be allocated to the Member who received (or whose Affiliate received) or is treated as having received such payment an amount of gross income for the taxable year in or with respect to which such fees, interest, or other amounts were adjusted equal to the amount of the decrease of such fees, interest, or other amounts. 
               
3.6
        
Tax Allocations; Code Section 704(c)
.
                            In accordance with Code Section 704(c) and the Regulations thereunder, income, gain, loss, deduction and credit with respect to any Property contributed to the capital of the Company shall, solely for tax purposes, be allocated among the Members so as to take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such Property to the Company for federal income tax purposes and its initial Gross Asset Value (computed in accordance with the definition of Gross Asset Value) using the traditional method set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-3(b).  
                .  Capital Accounts shall not be revalued in connection with the Capital Contributions described in Schedule 2.2(a) of the Transaction Agreement and described in and of this Agreement. 
3.7
        
Revaluation of Capital Accounts
Section 2.1(a)
2.3(a) and (b)
                3.8        .  The NS Member and the Pan Am Member shall have the Membership Interests reflected in Exhibit C, and such Membership Interests shall be referred to as the "NS Member's Membership Interests" and the "Pan Am Member's Membership Interests", respectively.
Membership Interests
                3.9       
Special Election.
                            The Company shall elect on its federal income tax return for its first Fiscal Year to use the safe harbor method of accounting for track structure expenditures provided in Rev. Proc. 2002-65 and follow such safe harbor method of accounting until the Members unanimously agree otherwise.
                .  Except as otherwise provided in this or , remaining Net Cash Flow, if any, shall be distributed upon the approval of the Management Committee. 
4.1
        
Distributions
Section 4
Section 11
                .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in , for each Fiscal Year of the Company, Net Cash Flow shall be distributed on at least an annual basis.  Such distribution of Net Cash Flow shall be made pro rata to the Members in accordance with each Member's Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interest.
4.2
        
s
Timing and Allocation of Distribution
Section 4.1
                .  All amounts withheld pursuant to the Code or any provision of any state, local or foreign tax law with respect to any payment, distribution or allocation to the Company or the Members shall be treated as amounts paid or distributed, as the case may be, to the Members with respect to which such amount was withheld pursuant to this for all purposes under this Agreement.  The Company is authorized to withhold from payments and distributions, or with respect to allocations to the Members, and to pay over to any federal, state and local government or any foreign government, any amounts required to be so withheld pursuant to the Code or any provisions of any other federal, state or local law or any foreign law, and shall allocate any such amounts to the Members with respect to which such amount was withheld.  The withholdings by the Company referred to in this shall be made at the appropriate applicable statutory rate under the applicable tax as determined by the Management Committee.
4.3
        
Amounts Withheld
Section 4.3
Section 4.3
                .  The Company shall make no distributions to the Members except (i) as provided by and in accordance with this and or as agreed to by all of the Members and (ii) in conformance with the Act.
4.4
        
Limitations on Distributions
Section 4
Section 11
                .  If any Membership Interest is Transferred during any Fiscal Year in compliance with the provisions of or or additional Members are admitted to the Company after the date hereof on different dates during any Fiscal Year, Profits, Losses, each item thereof, and all other items attributable to the Transferred Membership Interest or the newly issued Membership Interest, as the case may be, for such Fiscal Year shall be divided and allocated among the Members by taking into account their varying Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interests during the Fiscal Year in accordance with Code Section 706(d), using the interim-closing-of-the-books method unless the Members agree otherwise in writing.  In the case of a Transferred Interest, all distributions on or before the date of such Transfer shall be made to the transferor, and all distributions thereafter shall be made to the transferee.  Solely for purposes of making such allocations and distributions, the Company shall recognize such Transfer not later than the end of the calendar month during which it is given notice of such Transfer, provided that, if the Company is given notice of a Transfer at least ten (10) Business Days prior to the Transfer, the Company shall recognize such Transfer as of the date of such Transfer, and provided further that if the Company does not receive a notice stating the date such Membership Interest (or portion thereof) was Transferred and such other information as the Management Committee may reasonably require within thirty (30) days after the end of the Fiscal Year during which the Transfer occurs, then all such items shall be allocated, and all distributions shall be made, to the Person who, according to the books and records of the Company, was the owner of the Membership Interest on the la
4.5
        
Distributions and Allocations in Respect of a Transferred Membership Interest
Section 9
Section 10
st day of such Fiscal Year.
                .  The Members each agree to act in good faith to operate the Company in a manner reasonably designed to maximize the long-term value of the Company as a whole.
5.1
        
Manner of Operations
                .
5.2
        
Management Committee
                            (a)               .  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the business, property and affairs of the Company shall be managed, and all powers of the Company shall be exercised, by or under the direction of a management committee (the "Management Committee").  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, but subject to the express limitations set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Management Committee shall have all necessary powers to manage and carry out the purpose, business, property and affairs of the Company.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Management Committee shall cause the Company to effectuate Section 9 of the Transaction Agreement.
Management by the Management Committee
                            (b)               .  The Management Committee shall consist of: (i) prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, six (6) committee representatives, three (3) of whom shall be designated by the Pan Am Member and three (3) of whom shall be designated by the NS Member, and alternates appointed by the Pan Am Member and the NS Member, respectively, to serve in the absence or unavailability of a committee representative, or (ii) upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, immediately and without the need for any action of any Member or any other Person, five (5) committee representatives, two (2) of whom shall be designated by the Pan Am Member and three (3) of whom shall be designated by the NS Member, in each case with alternates appointed by the Pan Am Member and the NS Member, respectively, to serve in the absence or unavailability of a committee representative (each, including alternates, a "Committee Representative").  Each Committee Representative shall serve at the pleasure of the Member or Members who designated such Committee Representative.  The initial Committee Representatives are identified in Exhibit 5.2(b) attached hereto.  Any Committee Representative may resign upon written notice to the Member who designated such Committee Representative and to the Company.  The resignation of any such Committee Representative shall take effect upon receipt of such notice, or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice.  A Committee Representative may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Member who originally designated such Committee Representative.  Except as governed by for an Event of Default by a Member, any vacancy occurring for any reason in the number of Committee Representatives shall be filled by the Member who originally designated the Committee Representative whose position has become vacant.  A Member shall provide written notice to all other Members of the identity of a new Committee Representative when that new Committee Representative is designated, provided, however, that the provision of said written notice shall not be a prerequisite to said designation nor the ability of said Committee Representative to participate in the governance of the Company.  The Chairman of the Management Committee shall be appointed by the Pan Am Member in all even numbered calendar years and by the NS Member in all odd numbered calendar years, provided that, upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, the Chairman of the Management Committee shall be appointed by the NS Member.
Composition of Management Committee
Section 10
                            (c)               .  Except as otherwise restricted by the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement between the Company and the Person acting as Committee Representative, each Committee Representative in his capacity as a Committee Representative shall be required to devote such time to the affairs of the Company as may be necessary to serve the Company in such capacity and shall be free to serve any other Person or enterprise in any capacity that such Committee Representative may deem appropriate in his discretion.
Independent Activities
               
5.3
        
Committees of, or reporting to, the Management Committee
.
                            (a)               .  Subject to , the Management Committee shall have the power and right (but not the obligation) to create and disband committees and to determine the duties, responsibilities, activities and composition thereof.  Except as otherwise provided herein, prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, the Pan Am Member and the NS Member shall each be entitled to equal representation on any such committee, and, upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, the NS Member shall be entitled to a majority of the representation on any such committee.
Creation of Committees
Section 5.6
                            (b)               .  The Members hereby agree that there shall be created a Capital Project Committee consisting of: (1) prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, four Committee Representatives, two of whom shall be designated by the Pan Am Member and two of whom shall be designated by the NS Member; and (2) upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, three Committee Representatives, two of whom shall be designated by the NS Member and one of whom shall be designated by the Pan Am Member.  The Capital Project Committee shall establish a process (the "Capital Project Process") utilizing capacity modeling and field input to determine capacity needs and capital expenditures with respect to Capital Projects.  The Capital Project Process will specify that the engineering specifications and instructions applicable to any particular Capital Project shall conform to the then-current NSR internal specifications and instruction for constructing a similar capital project.  The Capital Project Committee shall be responsible for (i) determining the optimum use of capital expenditures provided for in the Company's Budget (including any Rollover Budget) or Business Plan in accordance with the Capital Project Process and (ii) performing the functions allocated to it pursuant to the Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement.  The initial designees to the Capital Project Committee shall be those persons identified in Exhibit 5.3(b)(i) hereto.  Except as provided in , the Capital Project Committee shall follow any protocols approved by the Management Committee in accordance with to guide capital expenditures decisions.
Capital Project Committee
Section 5.12
Section 5.6
                            (c)               .  The Members hereby agree that there shall be created a Joint Operating Committee (the "Joint Operating Committee" or the "JOC") consisting of the Chief Operations Officer, Chief Marketing Officer and one other appointed representative, or their respective designees, of Springfield Terminal and NSR.  Prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, the Joint Operating Committee shall make decisions by the unanimous vote of its members.  Upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, the NS Member shall have the right to appoint an additional member to the Joint Operating Committee, and the Joint Operating Committee shall make decisions based upon a majority vote.  The Joint Operating Committee shall have responsibility for (i) having direct, day-to-day interface with the General Manager, (ii) monitoring such matters as operations, performance and scheduling, (iii) seeking the resolution of disputes with respect to such matters, (iv) reviewing the operating efficiencies of the East Deerfield repair shops on or before the three-year anniversary of the Closing Date and (v) reviewing the operation of Springfield Terminal as the Railroad Operator, and overall railroad operations and business, by focusing on the following five (5) key performance areas, which review shall be based upon specific performance metrics that the Joint Operating Committee shall develop: (A) safety metrics, including injury ratios and accident ratios; (B) service metrics, including on-time train and service performance; (C) engineering and maintenance quality, including miles slow-ordered; (D) performance to budget, including operating ratio; and (E) commercial metrics, including revenue growth and customer satisfaction.
Joint Operating Committee
                            (d)               The Capital Project Committee and the Joint Operating Committee may meet by telephone or in any manner or place as shall be agreeable to its members.  If, prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, the Capital Project Committee and the Joint Operating Committee is unable to reach a unanimous vote on any matter, it shall refer that matter to the Management Committee for resolution.
               
5.4
        
Meetings of Management Committee
.
                            (a)               .  Meetings of the Management Committee shall be held at least once each calendar quarter and may be called by any Committee Representative.  All meetings shall be held upon fifteen (15) Business Days' notice by mail or four (4) Business Days' notice delivered personally or by telephone, e-mail or facsimile stating the business to be transacted at such meeting; provided, that at least thirty (30) Business Days' notice shall be provided for any meeting in which approval of any action of the type set forth in clauses (xxi) or (xxii) of is sought.  The Committee Representatives present may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.  Notice of any adjourned meeting shall be given to the Committee Representatives who are not present at the time of the adjournment thereof in accordance with the second sentence of this .  Meetings of the Management Committee shall be held at the offices of the Company unless another location shall have been designated in the notice of the meeting or at such place as may be approved by the Management Committee.  Members of the Management Committee may participate in a meeting through use of conference telephone or similar communications equipment, so long as all Committee Representatives participating in such meeting can hear one another.  Participation in a meeting in such manner constitutes presence in person at such meeting.  No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all of the Committee Representatives.  Any Committee Representative may authorize in writing any Person to act for it by proxy on all matters on which a Committee Representative is entitled to act, including waiving notice of, or voting or participating at, any meeting.
Notices
Section 5.6
Section 5.4
                            (b)               .  The presence in person of a majority of the Committee Representatives (at least one of whom shall be a Committee Representative appointed by the NS Member if a Major Decision is to be made) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Management Committee duly called in accordance with , provided that, upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, the presence of at least two Committee Representatives appointed by the NS Member shall be required so as to constitute a quorum.
Quorum
Section 5.4(a)
                            (c)               .  Each Committee Representative shall have one vote to cast in person or by proxy. 
Vote
                            (d)               .  Except to the extent that this Agreement expressly requires otherwise (including as provided in ), every action or resolution done or made by the majority approval of the Management Committee at a duly noticed meeting at which a quorum is present is the action of the Management Committee.
Action of the Committee
Section 5.6
                .  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Management Committee may be taken by the Committee Representatives without a meeting without prior notice and without a vote, but only if a consent or consents in writing shall be signed by all of the Committee Representatives. 
5.5
        
Action by Unanimous Written Consent
                .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement (other than ), the following actions are reserved and require the approval of the Management Committee, including the approval of at least one of the Committee Representatives appointed by the NS Member, and no committee thereof, nor any officer, agent or other representative of the Company shall be entitled to authorize or effect any such action absent such approval (each such action, a "Major Decision"):
5.6
        
Management Committee Decisions
Section 5.11
                                                (i)               Repealing, modifying or amending this Agreement or any of the JV Transaction Agreements to which the Company is a party, or waiving compliance with any provision of this Agreement or any of the JV Transaction Agreements to which the Company is a party;
                                                (ii)               Repealing, modifying or amending the Investment Policies;
                                                (iii)               Entering into any agreement with respect to or consummating any (A) acquisition, divestiture, spin-off, merger, consolidation, business combination or similar transaction involving equity interests or assets of the Company, (B) sale, transfer, lease, sublease, license or other disposition of any property or asset to a third party other than in the ordinary course of business, or (C) formation of, investment of the funds or assets of the Company in or other participation in any joint venture or partnership;
                                                (iv)               Entering into any transactions with any Member or any Affiliate of any Member, other than as contemplated by the Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement, the distributions contemplated in or or pursuant to the JV Transaction Agreements;
Section 2.4
Section 4
                                                (v)               Approving the Budget or the Business Plan or any changes in, amendments to or deviations from, the Budget (including any Rollover Budget) or the Business Plan; provided, however, in the event the Management Committee cannot agree on (A) a Capital Project or (B) the Operating or Maintenance Budgets, the prior year's budget shall roll forward as provided in ;
Section 5.7(a)
                                                (vi)               Appointing, setting the rate of compensation of, approving bonuses for, or terminating any employees or Officers of the Company, if any;
                                                (vii)               Approving any change in the number of members of the Management Committee;
                                                (viii)               Declaring, making or paying any dividend or any other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) on any equity interests of the Company, other than the distributions contemplated in ;
Section 4
                                                (ix)               Incurring any indebtedness, guarantee or lien or making any loans (including any Notes), advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any Person, except (A) as provided in the Budget or Rollover Budget, (B) purchase money financing of assets used in the conduct of the business of the Company, and (C) as may be reasonable or necessary, in light of force majeure events or other eventualities, to maintain operations of the Company and, if any, NSR, on the Line;
                                                (x)               Creating any employee equity option, structured equity, employee stock option plan or other similar plan, making any grants under any such plan or materially modifying any employee benefit plan;
                                                (xi)               Requiring any Capital Contribution beyond those contributions specified in this Agreement, the JV Transaction Agreements and any Budget (including any Rollover Budget) adopted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement;
                                                (xii)               Initiating or consenting to the filing of any petition to place the Company in insolvency, bankruptcy or similar proceedings;
                                                (xiii)               Admitting new Members to the Company;
                                                (xiv)               Approving any changes in the Profit and Loss Allocation Percentage Interests of the Members other than as contemplated by ; 
Section 2.3
                                                (xv)               Commencing, settling or disposing of any litigation against the Company or any of its assets or properties, except any settlement or disposition not exceeding $250,000;
                                                (xvi)               Except as contemplated by the Capital Projects and Facility Management Agreement, entering into any agreement, license, program or arrangement pursuant to which the Company is obligated to make or receive payments or forgive debt, or amending, terminating or failing to renew any such contract other than those specified in the Budget (including any Rollover Budget), other than as may be reasonable or necessary, in light of force majeure events or other eventualities, to maintain operations of the Company and, if any, NSR, on the Line;
                                                (xvii)               Approving the formation and composition of any committees of the Management Committee (other than self-effecting changes in such composition pursuant to this Agreement) and the formation and composition of the boards or equivalent governing bodies of any subsidiary of the Company;
                                                (xviii)               Making any material change in the Company's accounting practices or policies (other than as required by GAAP) or, prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, any change in the Auditors;
                                                (xix)               Taking any of the actions set forth in clauses (i) through (xviii) above with respect to any entity of which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, securities or other ownership interests having the power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions, or otherwise having the power to direct, manage or control the conduct of business of such entity or otherwise owning at least ten percent (10%) of the outstanding ownership interests of such entity;
                                                (xx)               Making operating expenses or capital expenditures beyond those contained in the Budget (including any Rollover Budget), except as may be reasonable or necessary, in light of force majeure events or other eventualities, to maintain operations of the Company and, if any, NSR, on the Line;
                                                (xxi)               Entering into an agreement, program or other arrangement pursuant to which the Company grants or provides to any Person any operating, haulage, trackage or any other rights that allow access over the Line, or otherwise expands any such current access rights; or
                                                (xxii)               Permitting any Freight Rail Common Carrier to perform haulage for any rail carrier, whether such Freight Rail Common Carrier is operating over the Line in haulage or on trackage rights.
                . 
5.7
        
Budget and Business Plan; Investment Policies
                            (a)               Attached as Exhibit 5.7(a) to this Agreement is a forecast of the budget (the "Budget") for the first Fiscal Year, a forecast of a business plan (a "Business Plan") for the first Fiscal Year, and a forecast of net cash flow (which, by definition, will reflect any reasonably necessary cash reserve requirements) (a "Net Cash Flow Forecast") for the first Fiscal Year.  On or prior to the date which is sixty days before the end of each Fiscal Year, commencing with the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2009, the Management Committee shall review, and, if acceptable, approve, a Budget, Business Plan and Net Cash Flow Forecast for the following Fiscal Year, in each case to be prepared by the Railroad Operator.  The Budget shall consist of a Maintenance Budget and an Operating Budget (which such Operating Budget shall be prepared in conformance with the Operating Expense Accounting Plan attached as Appendix D to the Railroad Operating Agreement), and the Business Plan shall consist of a Maintenance Plan and an Operating Plan.  The Budget, Business Plan and Net Cash Flow Forecast for the next succeeding Fiscal Year shall upon approval of the Management Committee in accordance with become the Budget, Business Plan and Net Cash Flow Forecast for such Fiscal Year.  If the Management Committee does not approve a Budget, Business Plan or Net Cash Flow Forecast for any Fiscal Year prior to the commencement of such year, then the Budget, Business Plan or Net Cash Flow Forecast for that Fiscal Year shall be the Budget, Business Plan or Net Cash Flow Forecast, as the case may be, from the prior Fiscal Year (excluding the prior Fiscal Year's extraordinary and nonrecurring items, but including any contractually obligated or legally required commitments or expenditures for the current year), as the case may be, adjusted, in the case of the Budget based on the "AAR Railroad Cost Indexes - Table A - Annual indexes of charge-out prices and wage rates (1977 = 100) - East - Materials prices, wage rates and supplements combined (excluding fuel)," together with any adjustment of contractual commitments in accordance with their terms (a "Rollover Budget").  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, the Budget (including any Rollover Budget), Business Plan and Net Cash Flow Forecast for any Fiscal Year shall take into account the capital expenditures for such Fiscal Year set forth in Schedule 2.5 to the Transaction Agreement and any reserves the Management Committee deems to be reasonably necessary to conduct the business of the Company as reflected in the Budget and Business Plan.
Section 5.6
                            (b)               Attached as Exhibit 5.7(b) to this Agreement are the investment policies (the "Investment Policies") pursuant to which the initial Capital Contribution of the NS Member described in , any additional cash Capital Contributions to the Company, and any other funds shall be invested by the Company.  The Company shall provide a monthly report to the NS Member and the Pan Am Member detailing the investments made by the Company and the extent of such holdings.
Section 2.1(a)
               
5.8
        
.
Officers
                            (a)                 Subject to , the Management Committee shall have the authority to appoint and terminate Officers of the Company and retain and terminate employees, agents and consultants of the Company and to delegate such duties to any such Officers, employees, agents and consultants as the Management Committee deems appropriate, including the power, acting individually or jointly, to represent and bind the Company in all matters, in accordance with the scope of their respective duties.  The setting and modifications of compensation levels (including bonuses and benefits, if any) for any such Officers, employees, agents or consultants shall be set by the approval of the Management Committee in accordance with .
Officers.
Section 5.6
Section 5.6
                            (b)                 Subject to , the Management Committee shall have the authority to ratify the appointment of the General Manager, such appointment to be made by the Railroad Operator.
General Manager.
Section 5.6
                .
5.9
        
Exculpation and Indemnification
                            (a)               .  The Committee Representatives, the Officers (if any) and each Member and its Affiliates, and the partners, members, shareholders, officers, directors, advisory directors, managers, employees and control persons (as such term is defined in the Securities Act) of each Member and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Indemnified Persons") shall not be liable, directly or indirectly, to the Company, any other Member or any other Person who has an interest in the Company for any act or omission (in relation to the Company or this Agreement) taken or omitted by such Indemnified Person in good faith in their capacity as such, provided that such act or omission did not constitute gross negligence, fraud or willful violation of the law, this Agreement or the fiduciary duties set forth in .  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnified Person and may indemnify any other Person subject to approval and designation of such person for such indemnification by approval of the Management Committee against all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses of whatever nature (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) ("Claims") relating to activities undertaken in connection with the Company in their capacity as such, including, but not limited to, amounts paid in satisfaction of judgments, in compromise or as fines and penalties, and counsel fees and expenses reasonably incurred in connection with the investigation, defense or disposition of any action, suit or other proceeding, whether civil or criminal, before any court or administrative body in which such Indemnified Person may be or may have been involved as a party or otherwise, or with which such Indemnified Person may be or may have been threatened, while acting as such Indemnified Person; provided that no indemnity shall be payable hereunder against any liability incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of gross negligence, fraud, a willful violation of the law or a breach of this Agreement or the fiduciary duties set forth in .  No Indemnified Person shall settle or compromise any Claim without the written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, of the Management Committee, subject to .
Indemnified Persons
Section 5.10(a)
Section 5.10(a)
Section 5.6
                            (b)               .  Expenses incurred by an Indemnified Person in defense or settlement of any Claim that may be subject to a right of indemnification hereunder may be advanced (and must be advanced to Members, the Committee Representatives and Officers, if any, of the Company) by the Company prior to the final disposition thereof upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnified Person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnified Person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company.
Advance of Expenses
                            (c)               .  The right of any Indemnified Person to the indemnification provided herein shall be cumulative of and in addition to any and all rights to which such Indemnified Person may otherwise be entitled by contract or as a matter of law or equity and shall extend to such Indemnified Person's successors, assigns and legal representatives.
Non-Exclusivity
                            (d)               .  All judgments against the Company or an Indemnified Person, in respect of which such Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification, shall only be satisfied from Company assets and no other Person shall have any liability with respect thereto.
Satisfaction from Company Assets
                            (e)                .  The Company is authorized to pay expenses, fees, withholding taxes and other costs reasonably incurred by the Company, including, without limitation, expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or investments and expenses incurred under this .
Expenses
Section 5.9
                            (f)                 .  The Company shall report in writing to the Management Committee details of any payments made pursuant to or .
Report to the Management Committee
Section 5.9(d)
Section 5.9(e)
                .
5.10
        
Fiduciary Duty; Exculpation
                            (a)                Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, whether express or implied, or applicable law, the Members agree that, except as to the matters set forth in , to the fullest extent permitted by Section 18-1101(c) of the Act, no Member shall owe any duties at law or in equity (including fiduciary duties) to the Company or any other Member; provided, that an Indemnified Person who is a Committee Representative and who shall also be an employee of a Member shall have a fiduciary duty to such Member and not to the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall eliminate any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing between any Member and the Company or the other Members.  With regard to matters set forth in , the Members shall require their respective Committee Representatives to act in the best interests of the Company.
Section 5.12(b)
Section 5.10
Section 5.12(b)
                            (b)               The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of an Indemnified Person otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Members hereunder to replace such other duties and liabilities of such Indemnified Person.
                  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, in the event of any disagreement, dispute or controversy between any Member or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company), on the one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any of the JV Transaction Agreements to which the Company is a party or is subject or the breach, termination or validity thereof, the Committee Representatives designated by the other Member shall control (on behalf of the Company) the conduct or settlement of any such disagreement, dispute or controversy or any proceedings relating thereto.
5.11
        
Interparty Matters
.
                .
5.12
        
Industrial Development Projects
                            (a)                Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, each Member, acting in its individual capacity and not as a Member or otherwise on behalf of the Company, shall have the right to directly contract with any new or existing customer of that Member so as to induce said customer to locate or expand facilities on the Line.
                            (b)               The Company shall construct and maintain one or more Industrial Development Projects if said Industrial Development Project(s) are in the Company's best interest, giving due consideration to costs, revenues, contributions, safety, security, and capacity needs of current and projected expansions of existing or authorized traffic. 
               
5.13
        
Public Funds.
                            The Company shall solicit public funding for the capital projects appearing on Exhibit B hereto, provided, however, that nothing in this shall require the Company to receive, without an affirmative vote of the Management Committee, public funding that would require the Company to provide third party access to the Company's facilities. 
Section 5.13
                  The Members in their capacity as Members shall not have any right or power to take part in the management or control of the Company or its business and affairs or to act for or bind the Company in any way.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Members have all the rights and powers specifically set forth in this Agreement and, to the extent not inconsistent with this Agreement, in the Act.  A Member shall cease to be a Member at the time such Member ceases to own any Membership Interests.
6.1
        
.
Rights or Powers
                  No Member has any voting right except with respect to those matters specifically reserved for a Member vote which are set forth in this Agreement and as required in the Act.
6.2
        
.
Voting Rights
               
6.3
        
Meetings of the Members.
                            (a)                Meetings of the Members may be called upon the written request of any Member.  The call shall state the location of the meeting and the nature of the business to be transacted.  Notice of any such meeting, including any meeting that has been adjourned, shall be given to each Member not less than fifteen (15) Business Days (or four (4) Business Days if delivered personally or by telephone, email or facsimile) nor more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of such meeting.  Members may vote in person, by proxy or by telephone at such meeting and may waive advance notice of such meeting.  Whenever the vote or consent of Members is permitted or required under the Agreement, such vote or consent may be given at a meeting of the Members or may be given in accordance with the procedure prescribed in .  No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all of the Members entitled to vote thereat.
Section 6.3(f)
                            (b)               For the purpose of determining the Members entitled to vote on, or to vote at, any meeting of the Members or any adjournment thereof, the Management Committee or the Member requesting such meeting may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for any such determination.  Such date shall not be more than thirty (30) days nor less than ten (10) days before any such meeting, unless between the setting of the record date and the record date there is a Pan Am Change in Control.  If between the setting of the record date and the record date there is a Pan Am Change in Control, the NS Member shall be given notice and the opportunity to set a new record date, which record date may be a date following the acquisition of any Governmental Approvals as may be reasonable or necessary for the NS Member to acquire and exercise control of the Company.
                            (c)                Each Member may authorize any Person or Persons to act for it by proxy on all matters in which a Member is entitled to participate, including waiving notice of any meeting, or voting or participating at a meeting.  Every proxy must be signed by the Member or its attorney-in-fact.  No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date thereof unless otherwise provided in the proxy.  Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the Member executing it.
                            (d)               Each meeting of Members shall be conducted by an individual Person selected by the Member entitled to appoint the Chairman of the Management Committee for the calendar year in which the meeting is held.  Except as otherwise required by law, the presence in person or by proxy of Members able to appoint more than fifty-nine percent (59%) of the voting members of the Management Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Members duly called in accordance with .  In case a quorum shall not be present at any meeting, any Member present thereat, in person or by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite number of Members shall be present.
Section 6.3(a)
                            (e)                At a meeting, any proposal shall be approved if it receives the affirmative vote of the Members able to appoint more than fifty-nine percent (59%) of the voting members of the Management Committee.
                            (f)                 Notwithstanding this , any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Members may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by each and every Member. 
Section 6.3
                .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement no action may be taken by the Company (whether by the Management Committee, or otherwise) in connection with any of the following matters without the written consent of all of the Members:
6.4
        
Required Member Consents
                            (a)                Any act in contravention of this Agreement; or
                            (b)               Any transaction to liquidate or dissolve the Company.
 
                .  No Member shall receive any interest, salary or drawing with respect to its Capital Contributions or its Capital Account or for services rendered on behalf of the Company, or otherwise, in its capacity as a Member, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any of the JV Transaction Agreements or in another agreement among the Company and a Member that received approval by the Management Committee in accordance with .
6.5
        
Member Compensation
Section 5.6
                .  No Member shall be liable under a judgment, decree or order of a court, or in any other manner for the debts or any other obligations or liabilities of the Company.  A Member shall be liable only to make its Capital Contributions and shall not be required to restore a deficit balance in its Capital Account or to lend any funds to the Company or, after its Capital Contributions have been made, to make any additional contributions, assessments or payments to the Company, provided that a Member may be required to repay distributions made to it as provided in or the Act.  A Committee Representative shall not have any personal liability for the repayment of any Capital Contributions of any Member.
6.6
        
Members' Liability
Section 4
                .  While the Company remains in effect or is continued, each Member agrees and waives its rights to have any Company Property partitioned, or to file a complaint or to institute any suit, action or proceeding at law or in equity to have any Company Property partitioned, and each Member, on behalf of itself, its successors and its assigns hereby waives any such right.
6.7
        
Partition
                .  Except as otherwise provided by applicable law and the provisions of this Agreement or as contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, subject to the Management Committee's approval in accordance with , any Member or any Affiliate of any Member may, but is not required to, enter into, directly or indirectly, any transaction, agreement, joint enterprise or arrangement, guarantee, loan, advance or investment with the Company provided the same is on an arms length basis and at fair market value.  No Member may, without the approval of the other Member, enter into, directly or indirectly, any transaction, agreement, joint enterprise or arrangement, guarantee, loan, advance or investment with the Company other than on an arms length basis and at fair market value.  The existence of these relationships and acting in such capacities will not result in the Member being deemed to be participating in the control of the business of the Company or otherwise affect the limited liability of the Member.
6.8
        
Transactions Between a Member and the Company
Section 5.6
                .  Each Member hereby agrees to execute and deliver to the Company within five days after receipt of a written request therefor, such other and further documents and instruments, statements of interest and holdings, designations, powers of attorney and other instruments and to take such other action as the Management Committee deems necessary, useful or appropriate to comply with any laws, rules or relations as may be necessary to enable the Company to fulfill its responsibilities under this Agreement.
6.9
        
Other Instruments
                .  Each Member hereby agrees to notify the other Members as soon as practicable of any event, circumstance or fact of which it has knowledge which has had, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on such Member's ability to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement.
6.10
        
Advise of Changes
                .
6.11
        
NS Change in Control
                Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a NS Change in Control, the Company shall enter into an agreement with Springfield Terminal granting to Springfield Terminal overhead trackage rights ("CoC Trackage Rights") between: (a) CPF 312 and Mechanicville for the sole purpose of interchanging traffic with Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or its wholly-owned subsidiary, at Mohawk Yard, NY; (b) CPF 312 and a connection with Vermont Railway at Hoosick Junction; (c) New England Central Railway at East Northfield, MA, or, should the Company's connection with New England Central Railway be moved to Millers Falls, MA, at Millers Falls; and (d) CSXT at Rotterdam Junction, NY.  The agreement shall have the same general terms and conditions as that governing the Harvard Trackage Rights, except that: (1) the compensation shall be the $0.24 per car mile (indexed beginning the Effective Date in the same manner as the compensation for the Harvard Trackage Rights); (2) the route will be over the main line of the Company between CPF 312 and the relevant entry-exit locations (Mechanicville, Hoosick Junction, East Northfield (or Millers Falls) and Rotterdam Junction); and (3) operations will be limited to two train pairs per day - one for carrying out the interchange with CP and CSXT and one for carrying out the interchange with Vermont Railway and New England Central.  Further, the Company and Springfield Terminal shall amend the Springfield Terminal Joint Use Agreement to permit an unlimited number of cars to move via those trackage rights; in all other ways the Springfield Terminal Joint Use Agreement shall be unmodified.  In addition, the Company shall agree to invest up to $5 million in a capital improvement as may be reasonably necessary to facilitate the use of the Harvard Trackage Rights under the amended agreement.
               
7.1
        
.
Accounting Books and Records
                            (a)                The Company shall keep on site at its principal place of business, or in such other place as the Management Committee may determine from time to time (which such location shall be immediately communicated to each Committee Representative), each of the following:
                                                (i)                Separate books of account for the Company which shall show a true and accurate record of all costs and expenses incurred, all charges made, all credits made and received, and all income derived in connection with the conduct of the Company and the operation of the Business in accordance with this Agreement, and, where costs and expenses, or costs and expenses inputs, are derived by taking a ratio of Springfield Terminal's costs, the Company shall show a true and accurate record of Springfield Terminal's total costs subject to the ratio, as well as true and accurate records of the metrics from which the applicable ratio is generated,
                                                (ii)                A current list of the full name and last known business, residence or mailing address of each Member and Committee Representative, both past and present,
                                                (iii)                A copy of the Certificate of Formation and all amendments thereto, together with executed copies of any powers of attorney pursuant to which any amendment has been executed,
                                                (iv)                Copies of the Company's federal, state, and local income tax returns and reports, if any, until one year after the period of limitations for auditing the return by the federal government or by any applicable state or local government expires,
                                                (v)                Copies of this Agreement (including any amendments thereto),
                                                (vi)                Copies of any writings permitted or required under the Act regarding the obligation of a Member to perform any enforceable promise to contribute cash or property or to perform services as consideration for such Member's Capital Contribution, and
                                                (vii)                Any written consents obtained from Members pursuant to the Act regarding action taken by Members without a meeting.
                            (b)                The Company shall use the accrual method of accounting in preparation of its financial reports and for tax purposes and shall keep its books and records accordingly.  Any Member or its designated representative has the right to access and audit, inspect and copy the contents of such books or records and shall also have access during normal business hours to such additional financial information, documents, books and records as may be reasonably requested (including in order to comply with any reporting requirements of such Member under applicable laws or stock exchange regulations).  The rights granted to a Member pursuant to this are expressly subject to compliance by such Member with the safety, security and confidentiality procedures and guidelines of the Company, as such procedures and guidelines may be established from time to time.
Section 7.1
                            (c)                The accounting period of the Company shall be the Fiscal Year.
                .
7.2
        
Reports
                            (a)                .  The Railroad Operator shall be responsible for causing the preparation of financial reports of the Company and the coordination of financial matters of the Company with the Company's accountants.
In General
                            (b)               .  The Company shall cause to be delivered to each Member the financial statements listed in clauses (i) and (ii) below, prepared, in each case (other than with respect to Member's Capital Accounts, which shall be prepared in accordance with this Agreement) in accordance with GAAP consistently applied (and, if required by any Member or its Affiliates for purposes of reporting under the Exchange Act Regulation S-X), including any reports as may be required in accordance with the Company's or any of its Members' status as a rail carrier, and such other reports, representations and certifications as any Member may reasonably request from time to time, provided that, if the Management Committee so determines within 30 days thereof, such other reports shall be provided at such requesting Member's sole cost and expense.  The monthly and quarterly financial statements referred to in clause (ii) below may be subject to normal year-end audit adjustments.
Periodic and Other Reports
                                                (i)               As soon as practicable following the end of each Fiscal Year (and in any event not later than 120 days after the end of such Fiscal Year) the Company shall cause to be delivered to each Member, an income statement and a balance sheet of the Company as of the end of such Fiscal Year and the related statements of operations, Members' Capital Accounts and changes therein, and cash flows for such Fiscal Year, together with appropriate notes to such financial statements and supporting schedules, all of which shall be audited and certified by the Auditors, and in each case, to the extent the Company was in existence, setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures for the immediately preceding Fiscal Year end (in the case of the balance sheet) and the two immediately preceding Fiscal Years (in the case of the statements), and
                                                (ii)               As soon as practicable following the end of each month and following the end of the first eleven months of each Fiscal Year (and in any event not later than 30 days after the end of each month and the end of each such month), the Company shall cause to be delivered to each Member, a balance sheet of the Company as of the end of each such month and each such Fiscal Quarter and the related statements of operations and cash flows for each such month and each such Fiscal Quarter and for the Fiscal Year to date, in each case, to the extent the Company was in existence, setting forth in comparative form the corresponding figures for the prior Fiscal Year's month and for the prior Year's Fiscal Quarter and the interim period corresponding to the month and the interim period just completed.
                The periodic statements described in clause (ii) above shall be accompanied by a written certification of the General Manager that such statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied or this Agreement, as the case may be.  The Company and the Management Committee shall also distribute to all Members, at the same time such reports are circulated, delivered or distributed internally, each and every internal management report prepared by, for or circulated among senior management of the Company relating to the business or financial performance of the Company.
                .
7.3
        
Tax Matters
                            (a)                .  It is the intent of the Members that the Company be classified as a partnership for U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes.  The Members hereby agree not to elect to be excluded from the application of Subchapter K of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Code or any similar state statute.
Partnership Status
                            (b)               .  The Tax Matters Partner (as defined in ) shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) the U.S. federal and state income tax returns and information returns (including, but not limited to, employment tax returns and various Forms 1099) and all other tax and information returns of the Company in a manner consistent with this Agreement.  The federal income tax return shall contain an election under Section 6231(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Code and the regulations thereunder to treat the Company as a partnership to which the provisions of Sections 6221 through 6234 of the Code, inclusive, apply.  The Tax Matters Partner shall cause the Company's accountants to prepare and review the necessary federal and state income tax returns and information returns for the Company, always reporting in a manner that legally produces the lowest Company taxable income (e.g., reporting depreciation under the accelerated method rather than under the straight-line or alternative depreciation system or electing any bonus depreciation that may be allowed in the future).  Each Member shall provide such information, if any, as may be needed by the Company for purposes of preparing such tax and information returns, provided that such information is readily available from regularly maintained accounting records.  Prior to April 1st of each year, or sooner as applicable, the Tax Matters Partner shall deliver to the other Member for its review a copy of the Company's federal and state income tax returns and information returns in the form proposed to be filed for each Fiscal Year, and shall reasonably consider and take into account all reasonable comments to such proposed tax returns and information returns provided by the other Member at least ten (10) days prior to the filing date for such returns.  After taking into account any such comments, the Tax Matters Partner shall cause the Company to timely file such tax returns.  Within two (2) Business Days after filing such federal and state income tax returns and information returns, the Tax Matters Partner shall cause the Company to deliver to each Member a copy of the Company's federal and state income tax returns and information returns as filed for each Fiscal Year, together with any additional tax-related information in the possession of the Company that such Member may reasonably and timely request in order to properly prepare its own income tax returns.
Company Tax Returns
Section 7.3(d)
                            (c)                .  The U.S. federal and state income tax returns for the Company (and other tax information if reasonably required by a Member, including a detailed calculation of each Member's Adjusted Capital Account for purposes of section 704(b) of the Code) shall be delivered to each Member as soon as practicable after the end of each Fiscal Year of the Company but not later than five months after the end of each Fiscal Year.  Tax information needed by each Member for financial reporting purposes shall be delivered to each Member within three (3) days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter.
Tax Information
                            (d)               . 
Tax Audits
                                                (i)               At all times prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, the Pan Member shall be the "tax matters partner," as that term is defined in Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code (the "Tax Matters Partner"); at all times upon and after a Pan Am Change in Control, the NS Member shall be the Tax Matters Partner.  The Tax Matters Partner is hereby directed and authorized to take whatever steps the Tax Matters Partner, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable to perfect such designation, including, without limitation, filing any forms or documents with the IRS and taking such other action as from time to time is required under the Regulations.
                                                (ii)               The Tax Matters Partner, in consultation with the other Member, shall direct the defense of any claims made by the IRS (or by any other taxing authority) to the extent that such claims relate to the adjustment of Company items at the Company level and, in connection therewith, shall cause the Company to retain and to pay the fees and expenses of counsel and other advisors chosen by the Tax Matters Partner with the consent of the other Member.  The Tax Matters Partner shall promptly deliver to each other Member a copy of all notices, communications, reports and writings received from the IRS relating to or potentially resulting in an adjustment of Company items, shall promptly advise the other Member of the substance of any conversations with the IRS in connection therewith, and shall keep the other Member advised of all developments with respect to any proposed adjustments which come to its attention.  In addition, the Tax Matters Partner shall (A) provide in a timely manner the other Member with a draft copy of any correspondence or filing to be submitted by the Company in connection with any administrative or judicial proceedings relating to the determination of Company items at the Company level reasonably in advance of such submission, (B) incorporate all reasonable changes or comments to such correspondence or filing requested by the other Member and (C) provide the other Member with a final copy of correspondence or filing.  The Tax Matters Partner will provide the other Member with notice reasonably in advance of any meetings or conferences with respect to any administrative or judicial proceedings relating to the determination of Company items at the Company level (including any meetings or conferences with counsel or advisors to the Company with respect to such proceedings), and the other Member shall have the right to participate, at its sole cost and expense, in any such meetings or conferences. 
                                                (iii)               Notwithstanding anything in this , the Tax Matters Partner shall not (A) extend the period of limitations for any tax year for Federal, state, and local income tax purposes, (B) enter into any settlement agreement that is binding upon the Members with respect to the determination of Company items at the Company level, (C) file a petition under Section 6226(a) of the Code for the readjustment of Company items, or (D) appeal any judicial decision with respect to any Company item, without the prior consent of the other Member which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
Section 7.3
                .  Amendments to this Agreement may be proposed by any Committee Representative or any Member.  Following such proposal, the Management Committee shall submit to the Members a verbatim statement of any proposed amendment, and the Management Committee shall include in any such submission a recommendation as to the proposed amendment.  The Management Committee shall seek the written consent of the Members pursuant to on the proposed amendment or shall call a meeting to vote thereon and to transact any other business that it may deem appropriate.  A proposed amendment shall be adopted and be effective as an amendment hereto only if it receives the affirmative vote of each of the Members. 
8.1
        
Amendments
Section 6.3(f)
                .  Except as provided in of this Agreement, no Member shall Transfer all or any portion of its Membership Interest.
9.1
        
Restrictions on Transfers
Section 9.2
                .  Subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth in , a Member may at any time Transfer all or any portion of its Membership Interest to (a) any Wholly-Owned Affiliate of either the NS Parent or Pan Am Parent, (b) subject to the prior written consent of all other Members, any Person, (c) any Person that  (i) is the surviving Person as a result of any merger or consolidation of the NS Parent with or into any such Person or (ii) acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the NS Parent, (d) any other Member, (e) any administrator, trustee or other Person to whom the NS Member or the NS Member's Membership Interest is transferred involuntarily by operation of law, (f) any Person that (i) is the surviving Person as a result of any merger or consolidation of the Pan Am Parent with or into any such Person or (ii) acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the Pan Am Parent, (g) any administrator, trustee or other Person to whom the Pan Am Member or the Pan Am Member's Membership Interest is transferred involuntarily by operation of law (any such Transfer being referred to in this Agreement as a "Permitted Transfer").  Any "Permitted Transfer" described in clauses (a) through (e) shall not constitute a Pan Am Change in Control and shall not effect a modification of the rights or obligations of the Members.  Any "Permitted Transfer" described in clauses (f) or (g) (even if such transfer also is described in clause (a)) shall constitute a Pan Am Change in Control and shall effect a modification of the rights or obligations of the Members as further set forth herein.
9.2
        
Permitted Transfers
Section 9.3
                .  A Transfer of a Membership Interest shall not be treated as a Permitted Transfer under unless and until the following conditions are satisfied:
9.3
        
Conditions to Permitted Transfers
Section 9.2
                            (a)                Except in the case of a Transfer involuntarily by operation of law, the transferor and transferee shall execute and deliver to the Company such documents and instruments of conveyance as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate in the opinion of counsel to the Company to effect such Transfer.  In the case of a Transfer of a Membership Interest involuntarily by operation of law, the Transfer shall be confirmed by presentation to the Company of legal evidence of such Transfer, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel to the Company.  In all cases, the transferor and/or transferee shall reimburse the Company for all costs and expenses that the Company reasonably incurs in connection with such Transfer.
                            (b)               The transferor and transferee shall furnish the Company with the transferee's taxpayer identification number and any other information reasonably necessary to permit the Company to file all required federal and state tax returns and other legally required information, statements or returns.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to make any distribution otherwise provided for in this Agreement with respect to any transferred Membership Interest until it has received such information.
                            (c)                Except in the case of a Transfer of a Membership Interest involuntarily by operation of law, either (i) such Membership Interest shall be registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws or (ii) the transferor shall provide (unless waived by the Management Committee) an opinion of counsel which opinion and counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Management Committee to the effect that such Transfer is exempt from all applicable registration requirements and that such Transfer will not violate any applicable laws regulating the Transfer of securities.
                            (d)               Prior to any such Transfer, the Transferee shall deliver to each Member a written commitment from such Transferee to be bound by this Agreement and to comply with the applicable provisions of .
Section 9.6
                            (e)                 Prior to any such Transfer, the transferor delivers to all other Members a written explanation about why or why not the Transfer would not cause the Company to terminate under Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and the Regulations thereunder  as a result of such Transfer.
                            (f)                 Prior to any such Transfer, each other Member delivers to the transferor either
                                                (i)                 The Member's written agreement that the Transfer would not cause the Company to terminate under Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and the Regulations thereunder solely as a result of such Transfer, or
                                                (ii)                 The Member's written consent for the Transfer.
                  Any purported Transfer of a Membership Interest that is not permitted by the terms of this Agreement shall be null and void and of no force or effect whatever; provided that, if the Company is required as a matter of law to recognize a Transfer that is not a Transfer permitted by the terms of this Agreement (unless the Management Committee, in its sole discretion and by unanimous action or consent, elects to recognize a Transfer that is not a Transfer permitted by the terms of this Agreement), the Membership Interest Transferred shall be strictly limited to the transferor's rights to allocations and distributions as provided by this Agreement with respect to the transferred Membership Interest, which allocations and distributions may be applied (without limiting any other legal or equitable rights of the Company) to satisfy any debts, obligations, or liabilities for damages that the transferor or transferee of such Membership Interest may have to the Company.
9.4
        
.
Prohibited Transfers
                In the case of a Transfer or attempted Transfer of a Membership Interest that is not a Transfer permitted by the terms of this Agreement, the parties engaging or attempting to engage in such Transfer shall be liable to indemnify, and hold harmless the Company and the other Members from all cost, liability, and damage that any of such indemnified Person may incur (including, without limitation, incremental tax liabilities, attorneys' fees, fees of experts and accountants, and expenses) as a result of such Transfer or attempted Transfer and efforts to enforce the indemnity granted hereby.
                .  A Person who acquires a Membership Interest, but who is not admitted as a substituted Member pursuant to shall be entitled only to allocations and distributions with respect to such Membership Interest in accordance with this Agreement, and shall have no right to any information or accounting of the affairs of the Company, shall not be entitled to inspect the books or records of the Company, and shall not have any of the rights of a Member under the Act or this Agreement but shall succeed to all of the obligations of the Member who purported to transfer a Membership Interest in violation hereof including without limitation the obligation of the transferee under this with respect to any subsequent transfers.
9.5
        
Rights of Unadmitted Assignees
Section 9.6
Section 9
                .  Subject to the other provisions of this , a transferee or acquiree of a Membership Interest shall be admitted to the Company as a new or substituted Member upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this :
9.6
        
Admission of New and Substituted Members
Section 9
Section 9.6
                            (a)                The Membership Interest with respect to which the transferee is being admitted was acquired by means of a Transfer permitted by the terms of this Agreement.
                            (b)               The transferee of the Membership Interest (other than, with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) below, a transferee that was a Member or a Wholly-Owned Affiliate of a Member prior to the Transfer) shall, by written instrument in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Management Committee (and, in the case of clause (iii) below, the transferor Member), (i) make customary representations and warranties to each non-transferring Member as to its due organization, authority to become a party to this Agreement, litigation and required consents, (ii) accept and adopt the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including , this and , and (iii) assume the obligations of the transferor Member under this Agreement with respect to the transferred Membership Interest.  Upon unanimous agreement of all Members, a transferor Member transferring all but not less than all of its Membership Interest to any Permitted Transferee shall be released from all such assumed obligations except (x) those obligations or liabilities of the transferor Member arising out of a breach of this Agreement, and (y) in the case of a Transfer to any Person other than a Member or any of its Affiliates, those obligations or liabilities of the transferor Member based on events occurring, arising or maturing prior to the date of Transfer.
Section 5.2(c)
Section 9
Section 10
                            (c)                A new Member acquiring a Membership Interest from the Company shall by written instrument in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Management Committee (i) make representations and warranties to the Members equivalent to those set forth in and (ii) accept and adopt the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Section 9.6(b)(i)
                            (d)               The transferee or acquiree pays or reimburses the Company for all reasonable legal, filing, and publication costs that the Company incurs in connection with the admission of the transferee or acquiree as a Member with respect to the Transferred Membership Interest.
                            (e)                Except in the case of a Transfer involuntarily by operation of law, if required by the Management Committee, the transferee (other than a transferee that was a Member or a Wholly-Owned Affiliate of a Member prior to the Transfer) shall deliver to the Company evidence of the authority of such Person to become a Member and to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and the transferee and transferor shall each execute and deliver such other instruments as the Management Committee reasonably deems necessary or appropriate to effect, and as a condition to, such Transfer, including amendments to the Certificate or any other instrument filed with the State of Delaware or any other state or governmental authority.  In the event of an involuntary Transfer by operation of law the transferee shall succeed to all of the obligations of the transferring Member under this Agreement but shall not have any rights (including rights with respect to Management Committee membership or under ) other than with respect to allocations or distributions under this Agreement.
Section 9
                .  Each Member hereby represents and warrants to the Company and the Members that such Member's acquisition of a Membership Interest hereunder is made as principal for such Member's own account and not for resale or distribution of such Membership Interest.  Each Member further hereby agrees that the following legends may be placed upon any counterpart of this Agreement, the Certificate of Formation, or any other document or instrument evidencing ownership of a Membership Interest:
9.7
        
Representations Regarding Transfers; Legend
The Membership Interest represented by this document has not been registered under any securities laws and the transferability of such Membership Interest is restricted.  Such Membership Interest may not be sold, assigned, or transferred, nor will any assignee, vendee, transferee, or endorsee thereof be recognized as having acquired any such Membership Interest by the issuer for any purposes, unless (1) a registration statement under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to such Membership Interest shall then be in effect and such transfer has been qualified under all applicable state securities laws or (2) the availability of an exemption from such registration and qualification shall be established to the satisfaction of counsel to the Company; and
The Membership Interest represented by this document is subject to, and is transferable only upon compliance with, the provisions of a limited liability company agreement, dated as of April 9, 2009.  A copy of the above-referenced agreement is on file at the principal office of the Company.
                .  The following acts shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder:
10.1
        
Events of Default
                            (a)                A Transfer by any Member that is not a Permitted Transfer;
                            (b)               Failure of any Member to materially comply with any material covenant or agreement hereunder in accordance with its terms within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice thereof; or
                            (c)                The Bankruptcy of any Member.
                .  If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing:
10.2
        
Remedies Upon an Event of Default
                            (a)                The non-defaulting Members may seek specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein, and may seek to enjoin the breach of any covenant or agreement.  It is acknowledged that in such event it would be impossible to measure in money the damages that would be suffered if the parties hereto fail to comply with any of the obligations imposed herein on them and that, in the event of any such failure, an aggrieved party hereto will be irreparably damaged and will not have an adequate remedy at law.  In addition to being entitled to exercise all rights granted by law, any such party shall therefore, be entitled to equitable relief from any court having jurisdiction over such dispute, and if any action should be brought in equity to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, none of the parties shall raise the defense that there is an adequate remedy at law; and
                            (b)               Each non-defaulting Member shall be entitled to recover from the defaulting Member in an appropriate proceeding any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses of whatever nature (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) (collectively, "Damages") suffered or incurred by the Company or the non-defaulting Members as a result of such Event of Default.  No punitive damages shall be awarded as a result of an Event of Default hereunder.
                            (c)                If the Event of Default arises from the Bankruptcy of a Member, no less than five Business Days after the commencement of a Bankruptcy proceeding, whether Voluntary or Involuntary, such Member shall provide notice of its offer to sell to all non-defaulting Members (the "Default Sale Notice") all but not less than all of the Membership Interest of the Company held by such defaulting Member.  Each non-defaulting Member shall have the option within forty-five days of receiving the Default Sale Notice (the "Acceptance Period") to purchase all, but not less than all, of its pro rata share (based on the number of Membership Interests held by such non-defaulting Member as compared to the total number of Membership Interests held by all non-defaulting Members) of the Membership Interests offered.  The price of the Membership Interests offered by the defaulting Member shall be the Fair Value of such Membership Interests less any Damages incurred by the non-defaulting Member that are recoverable pursuant to .  If such offer to purchase is accepted such that all of the Membership Interests of the defaulting Member are purchased, and at least two Members remain, such Bankruptcy shall not be a Dissolution Event.
Section 10.2(b)
                            (d)               Each non-defaulting Member shall if it so desires, exercise its rights under by delivering to the defaulting Member written notice of election (the "Acceptance Agreement") prior to 5:00 p.m., Eastern standard time, on or before the last day of the Acceptance Period.  By delivering the Acceptance Agreement, the non-defaulting Member agrees to purchase, and the defaulting Member agrees to sell, that portion of the defaulting Member's Membership Interests which corresponds to the defaulting Member's pro rata share.  The Acceptance Agreement shall identify the committed source of financing for such purchase or provide evidence that the non-defaulting Member is able to effect the purchase.
Section 10.2(c)
                            The completion of the sale pursuant to shall occur on a date to be mutually agreed between the defaulting Member and the non-defaulting Member(s), but in no event later than five Business Days after the latter of (i) the delivery date of the Acceptance Agreement or (ii) the date on which the last of any required regulatory approvals in connection with such transaction is received.  All payments of the purchase price for a transaction pursuant to shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by the defaulting Member for such purpose.
Section 10.2(c)
Section 10.2(c)
                            (e)                If the Event of Default arises from a Transfer that is not a Permitted Transfer, the transferring Member shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary to reverse such Transfer.
                            (f)                 In addition to the foregoing remedies, each defaulting Member hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless each non-defaulting Member, the Company, their Affiliates and their respective partners, officers, directors, agents, representatives, employees and trustees ("Indemnified Parties") from and against all Damages arising out of or related to such Event of Default.
                .  The Company shall dissolve and shall commence winding up and liquidating upon the first to occur of any of the following (each a "Dissolution Event"):
11.1
        
Dissolution Events
                                                (i)                 The unanimous vote of the Members to dissolve, wind up, and liquidate the Company; or
                                                (ii)                 A judicial dissolution under Section 18-802 of the Act.
The Members hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision of the Act, the Company shall not dissolve prior to the occurrence of a Dissolution Event.  The Members acknowledge that, prior to a Pan Am Change in Control, the Management Committee has the potential to be deadlocked on certain decisions, and it is the intent of the Members that such deadlock shall not constitute grounds for a judicial dissolution under Section 18-802 of the Act.
               
                .  Upon the occurrence of a Dissolution Event, the Company shall continue solely for the purposes of winding up its affairs in an orderly manner, liquidating its assets, and satisfying the claims of its creditors and Members, and no Member shall take any action that is inconsistent with, or not necessary to or appropriate for, the winding up of the Company's business and affairs, provided that all covenants contained in this Agreement and obligations provided for in this Agreement shall continue to be fully binding upon the Members until such time as the Property has been distributed pursuant to this and the Certificate of Formation has been canceled pursuant to the Act.  The Liquidator shall be responsible for overseeing the winding up and dissolution of the Company, which winding up and dissolution shall be completed within ninety days of the occurrence of the Dissolution Event.  The Liquidator shall take full account of the Company's liabilities and Property and shall cause the Property or the proceeds from the sale thereof, to the extent sufficient therefor, to be applied and distributed, to the maximum extent permitted by law, in the following order:
11.2         
Winding Up
Section 11.2
                            (a)                First, to creditors (including Members and Committee Representatives who are creditors, to the extent otherwise permitted by law) in satisfaction of all of the Company's debts and other liabilities (whether by payment or the making of reasonable provision for payment thereof), other than liabilities for which reasonable provision for payment has been made;
                            (b)               Second, except as provided in this Agreement, to Members and former Members of the Company in satisfaction of liabilities for distribution under the Act;
                            (c)                The balance, if any, to the Members in accordance with their positive Capital Account balances (after taking into account all adjustments thereto for contributions, distributions and allocations for the year of dissolution and all prior periods).
                            (d)               Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Dissolution Event, the holder(s) of the NS Member's Membership Interests shall have a right to in-kind distribution of the Line upon payment of an amount equal to the difference between the Fair Value of the Line and the amount the NS Member would otherwise be entitled to after giving effect to through above.
Section 11.2(a)
Section 11.2(c)
                            (e)                Members or Committee Representatives may receive reasonable compensation for any services performed pursuant to this .
Section 11
                .  In the event the Company is "liquidated" within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(), and any Member has a deficit balance in its Capital Account (after giving effect to all contributions, distributions and allocations for all Fiscal Years, including the Fiscal Year during which such liquidation occurs), such Member shall have no obligation to make any contribution to the capital of the Company with respect to such deficit, and such deficit shall not be considered a debt owed to the company or to any other Person for any purpose whatsoever.  In the discretion of the Liquidator, a pro rata portion of the distributions that would otherwise be made to the Members pursuant to this may be:
11.3
         
Compliance With Certain Requirements of Regulations; Deficit Capital Accounts
g
Section 11
                            (a)                Distributed to a trust established for the benefit of the Members for the purposes of liquidating Company assets, collecting amounts owed to the Company, and paying any contingent or unforeseen liabilities or obligations of the Company.  The assets of any such trust shall be distributed to the Members from time to time, in the reasonable discretion of the Liquidator, in the same proportions as the amount distributed to such trust by the Company would otherwise have been distributed to the Members pursuant to ; or
Section 11.2
                            (b)               Withheld to provide a reasonable reserve for Company liabilities (contingent or otherwise) and to reflect the unrealized portion of any installment obligations owed to the Company, provided that such withheld amounts shall be distributed to the Members as soon as practicable.
                .  Any non-cash asset distributed to one or more Members shall first be valued at its Fair Value to determine Profit and Loss that would have resulted if such asset were sold for such value.  Such Profit or Loss shall then be allocated to reflect such allocation.
11.4
         
Distributions in Kind
                .  In the event of any distribution of Property in accordance with hereof, except as provided in , no Member shall have the right or power to demand or receive Property other than cash from the Company.  If the assets of the Company remaining after payment or discharge of the debts or liabilities of the Company are insufficient to return such Capital Contributions, the Members shall have no recourse against the Company or any other Member or Committee Representative.
11.5
         
Rights of Members
Section 11
Section 11.2(d)
               
11.6
         
.
Notice of Dissolution/Termination
                            (a)                In the event a Dissolution Event occurs, the Management Committee shall promptly, but in no event later than seven (7) days thereafter, provide written notice thereof to each of the Members.
                            (b)               Upon completion of the distribution of the Company's Property as provided in this , the Company shall be terminated, and the Liquidator shall cause the filing of the Certificate of Cancellation pursuant to the Act and shall take all such other actions as may be necessary to terminate the Company.
Section 11
                .  During the period commencing on the first day of the Fiscal Year during which a Dissolution Event occurs and ending on the date on which all of the assets of the Company have been distributed to the Members pursuant to (the "Liquidation Period"), the Members shall continue to share Profits, Losses, gain, loss and other items of Company income, gain, loss or deduction in the manner provided in .
11.7         
Allocations During Period of Liquidation
Section 11.2
Section 3
                .  All payments made in liquidation of the interest of a Member in the Company shall be made in exchange for the interest of such Member in Property pursuant to Section 736(b)(1) of the Code, including the interest of such Member in Company goodwill.
11.8         
Character of Liquidating Distributions
               
11.9          .
The Liquidator
                            (a)                .  The "Liquidator" shall mean a Person appointed by the unanimous vote of the Members to oversee the liquidation of the Company.
Definition
                            (b)               .  The Company is authorized to pay a reasonable fee to the Liquidator for its services performed pursuant to this and to reimburse the Liquidator for its reasonable costs and expenses incurred in performing those services.
Fees
Section 11
                            (c)                .  The Company shall indemnify, save harmless, and pay all judgments and claims against such Liquidator or any officers, directors, agents or employees of the Liquidator relating to any liability or damage incurred by reason of any act performed or omitted to be performed by the Liquidator, or any officers, directors, agents or employees of the Liquidator in connection with the liquidation of the Company, including reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Liquidator, officer, director, agent or employee in connection with the defense of any action based on any such act or omission, which attorneys' fees may be paid as incurred, except to the extent such liability or damage is caused by the fraud, intentional misconduct of, or a knowing violation of the laws by the Liquidator which was material to the cause of action.
Indemnification
                .  Any notice, payment, demand, or communication required or permitted to be given by any provision of this Agreement (each a "Notice") shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been delivered, given, and received for all purposes (i) if delivered personally to the Person or to an officer of the Person to whom the same is directed or (ii) when the same is actually received, if sent either by express delivery service or registered or certified mail, postage and charges prepaid and return receipt requested, or by facsimile, if such facsimile is followed by a hard copy of the facsimile communication sent promptly thereafter by registered or certified mail, postage and charges prepaid, addressed as follows or to such other address as such Person may from time to time specify, by notice to the Members and Committee Representatives:
12.1         
Notices
                .
12.2
         
Certificates
                            (a)                .  If at any time the Management Committee determines that it is in the best interests of the Company to issue certificates attesting to the ownership of Membership Interest in the Company by its Members, the provisions of this Section shall thereafter apply (and prior to such determination by the Management Committee, if any, this Section shall have no force or effect).
Right of the Management Committee to Issue Certificates
                            (b)               .  Certificates attesting to the ownership of interests in the Company shall be in such form as shall be approved unanimously by the Management Committee and shall state that the Company is a limited liability company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, the name of the Member to whom such certificate is issued and that the certificates represent limited liability company interests within the meaning of the Act.  Each such certificate shall be signed by one Committee Representative appointed by the Pan Am Member and one Committee Member appointed by the NS Member and shall include the legends referred to in .
Form of Certificates
Section 9.7
                            (c)                .  The transfer register or transfer books and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary of the Company or by any transfer agent or registrar designated by the Management Committee for that purpose.
Register
                            (d)               .  The certificates of the Company shall be numbered and registered in the share register or transfer books of the Company as they are issued.
Issuance
                            (e)                .  Subject to all provisions hereof relating to Transfers of Membership Interest, if the Company shall issue certificates in accordance with the provisions of this Section, Transfers of Membership Interests shall be made on the register or transfer books of the Company upon surrender of the certificate therefor, endorsed by the Person named in the certificate or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing.
Transfer
                            (f)                 .  Except to the extent that the Company shall have received written notice of an assignment of a Membership Interest in the Company, the Company shall be entitled to treat the Person in whose name any certificates issued by the Company stand on the books of the Company as the absolute owner thereof, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such Membership Interest on the part of any other Person.
Record Holder
                            (g)                .  The holder of any certificates issued by the Company shall promptly notify the Company of any loss, destruction or mutilation of such certificates, and the Management Committee may cause a new certificate or certificates to be issued to such holder, in case of mutilation of the certificate upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in case of loss or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction and, if the Management Committee shall so determine, the granting of an indemnity and/or the deposit of a bond in such form and in such sum, and with such surety or sureties, as the Management Committee may direct.
Lost Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates
                .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement every covenant, term and provision of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Members and their respective successors, transferees and assigns.
12.3
         
Binding Effect
                .  In computing any period of time pursuant to this Agreement, the day of the act, event or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included, but the time shall begin to run on the next succeeding day.  The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is not a Business Day, in which event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is a Business Day.
12.4
         
Time
                .  Section and other headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are not intended to describe, interpret, define, or limit the scope, extent, or intent of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
12.5
         
Headings
                .  This Agreement, the JV Transaction Agreements and the Certificate of Formation supersede all prior agreements among the parties hereto, written or oral, with respect to the operation of the Company or the transactions referred to herein and specifically any and all term sheets prepared in respect of such transactions.
12.6
         
Prior Agreements
                .  Except as otherwise provided in the succeeding sentence, every provision of this Agreement is intended to be severable, and, if any term or provision of this Agreement is illegal or invalid for any reason whatsoever, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the validity or legality of the remainder of this Agreement.  The preceding sentence of this shall be of no force or effect if the consequence of enforcing the remainder of this Agreement without such illegal or invalid term or provision would be to cause any Member to lose the material benefit of its economic bargain.
12.7
         
Severability
Section 12.7
                .  Every exhibit and other appendix attached to this Agreement and referred to herein is incorporated in this Agreement by reference unless this Agreement expressly otherwise provides.
12.8
         
Incorporation by Reference
                .  All terms and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to masculine, feminine, or neuter, similar or plural, as the identity of the Person or Persons may require.
12.9
         
Variation of Terms
                .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts with the same effect as if all of the Members had signed the same document.  All counterparts shall be construed together and shall constitute one agreement.
12.10
         
Counterpart Execution
                .  Except for Indemnified Persons, this Agreement shall not benefit or create any right or cause of action in or on behalf of any Person other than the parties hereto.
12.11
         
Third Party Beneficiaries
                .  The laws of the State of Delaware shall govern the validity of this Agreement, the construction of its terms and the interpretation of the rights and duties arising hereunder.
12.12
         
Governing Law
                .  Any information obtained by any Member, its respective Affiliates and respective employees in connection with this Agreement or the JV Transaction Agreements shall be subject to the confidentiality provision set forth in Section 17.5 of the Transaction Agreement.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Member may share this Agreement and related information with its external auditors, the IRS any other tax authority or as may otherwise be required by applicable law.
12.13
         
Confidentiality
                 
13.1
         
.
Reference to JOC
                Subject to and hereof, any dispute, controversy or claim between or among any two or more of the Company, the NS Member and the Pan Am Member and arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach, termination or validity thereof ("Dispute") shall be referred to the JOC for resolution and if the JOC is unable to resolve the dispute, it will be referred, in writing, to the Management Committee to resolve.
Sections 5.6
5.11
               
13.2
         
Reference for Formal Dispute Resolution.
                Any Dispute not resolved within sixty (60) days after receipt by any of the involved parties of written notice of reference of such Dispute to the Management Committee pursuant to , shall be submitted, by either Member for formal dispute resolution pursuant to .
Section 13.1
Section 13.3
               
13.3
         
.
Formal Dispute Resolution
                            (a)                Submission to Jurisdiction.  Each of the Company, the NS Member and the Pan Am Member hereto hereby (i) consents to submit itself to the exclusive jurisdiction of any Federal or state court located in the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Courts") in any action to enforce or in aid of the agreement to arbitrate in herein or for provisional relief  to maintain the status quo or prevent irreparable harm pending the appointment of the arbitrator, and to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Courts for enforcement of any award issued hereunder, (ii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, and (iii) waives any objection based on forum non conveniens or any other objection to venue thereof.
Section 13.3(b)
                            (b)                Dispute Resolution.  Except as provided in , each of the Company, the NS Member and the Pan Am Member hereto stipulates and agrees that any Dispute that is not resolved pursuant to will be submitted for formal dispute resolution, if at all, to mandatory and binding arbitration, in Washington, D.C., by a single arbitrator, under the Commercial Arbitration Rules and the Large Complex Case Procedures of the AAA then in effect (the "Rules"), under the following terms and conditions:
Section 10.2
Section 13.1
                                                (i)                .  A single independent arbitrator shall be appointed by the AAA using the listing, ranking and striking procedure in the Rules.  Any arbitrator appointed by the AAA shall be a retired judge or a practicing attorney with no less than fifteen years of experience with large commercial cases and an experienced arbitrator. 
Selection of Arbitrator
                                                (ii)                .  The arbitration shall be held and the award shall be issued in Washington, D.C.  In addition to money damages, the arbitrator may award any remedy provided for under applicable law and the terms of this Agreement, including, without limitation, specific performance or other forms of injunctive relief. The arbitrator shall apply the law of the State of Delaware to the substance of the Dispute and will have no power or authority, under the rules of the AAA or otherwise, to amend or disregard any provision of this Agreement. 
Conduct of Arbitration
                                                (iii)                .  Should the arbitrator refuse or be unable to proceed with arbitration proceedings, a replacement arbitrator will be selected using the same method of selection as the original arbitrator.
Replacement of Arbitrator
                                                (iv)                .  The arbitrator will, after reaching judgment and award, prepare and distribute to the parties a written award including the findings of fact and conclusions of law relevant to such award and containing an opinion setting forth the reasons for the giving or denial of any award.
Findings and Conclusions
                                                (v)                .  The arbitrator is hereby instructed that time is of the essence in the arbitration proceeding, and that the arbitrator shall have the right and authority to issue monetary sanctions against any party if, upon a showing that such party is unreasonably delaying the proceeding.
Time is of the Essence
                                                (vi)                .  By agreeing to arbitration, the parties do not intend to deprive any Delaware Court of its jurisdiction to issue a pre-arbitral injunction, pre-arbitral attachment, or other order in aid of arbitration proceedings and the enforcement of any award.  Without prejudice to such provisional remedies as may be available under the jurisdiction of a Delaware Court, the arbitrator shall have full authority to grant provisional remedies and to direct the parties to request that any court modify or vacate any temporary or preliminary relief issued by such court, and to award money damages for the failure of any party to respect the arbitrator's orders to that effect.
Temporary Equitable Relief
                                                (vii)                . The parties are committed to the prompt and efficient resolution of Disputes.  Accordingly, if more than one Dispute arise under this Agreement and/or any JV Transaction Agreement, such Disputes may be brought in a single arbitration.  If more than one arbitration is brought with respect to Disputes under this Agreement and/or any JV Transaction Agreement, then any party may request that any arbitration or any new Dispute arising under this Agreement or the JV Agreement be consolidated into any prior arbitration. The new Dispute or arbitration shall be so consolidated, provided that the arbitrator for the prior (or first filed) arbitration determines that (x) the new Dispute or arbitration presents significant issues of law or fact common with those in the pending arbitration; (y) no party would be unduly prejudiced and (z) consolidation under such circumstances would not result in undue delay for the prior arbitration.  Any order of consolidation issued by such arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitrator appointed first in time shall serve as the arbitrator for the consolidated arbitration. The parties waive any right they have to appeal or to seek interpretation, revision or annulment of such order of consolidation under the Rules or in any court.  The Parties agree that upon such an order of consolidation, they will promptly dismiss any arbitration brought under this Agreement, the subject of which has been consolidated into another arbitral proceeding.
Consolidation
                                    (viii)                .  Recognizing the express desire of the parties for an expeditious means of dispute resolution, the arbitrator will allow for limited discovery as may be reasonable under the circumstances.
Discovery
                                                (ix)                .  Notwithstanding any rule of the AAA to the contrary, the arbitrators rendering judgment under this will have the power to award the costs of the arbitration, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses to the prevailing party or parties in the arbitration.   In any action to enforce this agreement to arbitrate or any arbitral award rendered hereunder, the court may award costs and attorneys' fees against the party resisting enforcement.
Costs and Attorneys' Fees
Section 13.3(b)
                                    (x)                .  The arbitrator shall not have the power to award consequential or punitive damages or to determine violations of criminal or antitrust laws.  Pending the written decision of the arbitrator, there shall be no interruption in the transaction of business under this Agreement, and all payments in respect thereto shall be made in the same manner as prior to the arising of the dispute until the matter in dispute shall have been fully determined by arbitration, and thereupon such payment or restitution shall be made as required by the written decision of the arbitrator.  An arbitrator's award may be appealed in accord with Section 23 of the Uniform Arbitration Act.
Miscellaneous
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and entered into this Agreement as of the day first above set forth.
 
                                                                                NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
                                                                                 By:                                                                                       Name:  John H. Friedmann                                                                                       Title:  Vice President                                                                                 BOSTON AND MAINE CORPORATION
  John H. Friedmann                                       
                                                                                By:                                                                                       Name:  Robert B. Culliford                                                                                       Title:  Senior Vice President
  Robert B. Culliford                                       


