FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20100518133923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act  (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act         (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act         (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
   
Item 5.03.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On January 26, 2010, the Board of Directors amended the Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation, subject to shareholder approval of an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation at the Annual Meeting of shareholders.  The amendment to the Articles of Incorporation was approved at the Annual Meeting of shareholders.  The amended Articles of Incorporation are attached hereto as Exhibit 3 (i), and the amended Bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibit 3 (ii).
              
   
Item 5.07.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Norfolk Southern Corporation's Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on Thursday, May 13, 2010.  The following persons were elected to the Board of Directors for a term of three years:
              
Shareholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as Norfolk Southern's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010.  Stockholders cast 304,494,496 votes for the appointment, 4,895,298 votes against the appointment and abstained from casting 1,061,568 votes on the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm.
              
               Shareholders approved the amendment to Norfolk Southern Corporation's Articles of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors.  Stockholders cast 303,158,918 for the amendment, 5,158,896 votes against the amendment and abstained from casting 2,133,549 votes on the amendment to Norfolk Southern Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.
               Shareholders approved the amended Norfolk Southern Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Stockholders cast 251,974,164 votes for the approval, 19,079,524 votes against the approval and abstained from casting 2,122,977 votes on the approval of the amended Norfolk Southern Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan.
               Shareholders approved the amended Norfolk Southern Corporation Executive Management Incentive Plan.  Stockholders cast 292,093,602 votes for the approval, 15,690,288 votes against the approval and abstained from casting 2,667,472 votes on the approval of the amended Norfolk Southern Corporation Executive Management Incentive Plan.
               The stockholder proposal concerning corporate political contributions was defeated.  Stockholders cast 77,044,846 votes for the approval, 158,950,823 votes against the proposal and abstained from casting 37,180,996 votes on the stockholder proposal concerning corporate political contributions.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
              
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
                                                            SIGNATURES
                                                           
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
(Registrant)
                                                           
 
 
                                                            
      /s/ Howard D. McFadden            
                                                            Name:  Howard D. McFadden                                                             Title:    Corporate Secretary
Date: May 18, 2010
 
                                                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

                                                                          
Norfolk Southern Corporation's Restated Articles of Incorporation are amended to revise Article V as follows:
ARTICLE V
The number of directors, unless otherwise fixed by the bylaws, shall be sixteen.  At the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  At the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013 and thereafter, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a one year term expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  Each director shall hold office until his successor shall have been elected, and the terms of office of directors elected by the Board of Directors to succeed former directors shall expire at the next stockholders' meeting at which directors are elected.

                                                                  
 
 
 
                                                                  
BYLAWS
                                        
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
                                                      As Amended May 13, 2010
 
 
 
 
                                                                     BYLAWS
                                                                           OF
                                         NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
 
                                                                  ARTICLE I
                                                        
Stockholders' Meetings
                           SECTION 1.  .  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held on such date in March, April, May or June as the board of directors may designate.  If the date of the annual meeting shall be a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday.
Annual Meeting
                           SECTION 2.  .  Special meetings of the stockholders shall be held whenever called by the chief executive officer or by a majority of the directors.
Special Meetings
                           SECTION 3.  .  All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the time and place stated in the notice of meeting.
Time and Place
                           SECTION 4.  .  The holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the stockholders.  If less than a quorum is present at an annual or special meeting, then a majority in interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy may from time to time adjourn the meeting to a fixed time and place, no further notice of any adjourned meeting being required.  Each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share entitled to vote then outstanding in his name on the books of the corporation.
Quorum
                           SECTION 5.  .  The board of directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for a determination of stockholders for any purpose, such date to be not more than seventy days before the meeting or action requiring a determination of stockholders.
Record Date
                           SECTION 6.  .  Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the corporation, under any provision of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, the articles of incorporation or these bylaws, shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given.  Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the corporation.  Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if (i) the corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the corporation in accordance with such consent and (ii) such inability becomes known to the secretary of the corporation or any assistant secretary of the corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice; the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action.  Notice given pursuant to this Section shall be deemed given:  (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting when such notice is directed to the record address of the stockholder or to such other address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice, upon the later of such posting or the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when consented to by the stockholder.
Electronic Transmission of Notice
provided, however,
                           SECTION 7.  .  The chief executive officer, or any officer or director he may designate, shall preside over all meetings of the stockholders as chairman.  The chairman shall be authorized to declare whether any business is properly brought before a meeting, and, if he or she shall declare that it is not so brought, such business shall not be transacted.  The chairman of the meeting, at his or her discretion, may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum, and may determine the date, time and place that a meeting so adjourned is to reconvene.  The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the maintenance of order and safety, limitation on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.  The secretary of the corporation, or an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary of all the meetings, if present.  If the secretary or an assistant secretary is not present, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary.
Conduct of Meetings
                           The board of directors, prior to the annual meeting of the stockholders each year, shall appoint one or more inspectors of election to act at such annual meeting and at all other meetings of stockholders held during the ensuing year.  In the event of the failure of the board to make such appointment or if any inspector of election shall for any reason fail to attend and to act at such meeting, an inspector or inspectors of election, as the case may be, may be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.  The inspectors of election shall determine the qualification of voters, the validity of proxies and the results of ballots.
                           SECTION 8.  .  A stockholder or a stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, internet transmission, telephone transmission or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which the inspectors of election can determine that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder or the stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact.  If it is determined that any such transmission is valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they relied.  Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Electronic Authorization
                           SECTION 9.  .  No business may be transacted at an annual or special meeting of stockholders other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the board of directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder (i) who is a stockholder on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 9 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who gives to the corporation notice in writing of the proposal, provided that such written notice is received at the principal executive office of the corporation, addressed to the secretary of the corporation, (A) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred sixty (160) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and, (B) in the case of a special meeting, not later than the tenth calendar day next following the date on which notice of the holding of the special meeting is mailed to stockholders or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever first occurs.  Clause (c) of this Section 9, Article I, shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual or special meeting.  The written notice given to the corporation shall include (i) the specific language on which stockholders will be asked to vote, (ii) the name and address of such stockholder, (iii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of the capital stock of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and/or of record by such stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate (as defined below) and (B) any derivative positions with respect to the corporation's securities held or beneficially held by the proposing stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate and whether and to the extent to which the proposing stockholder or Stockholder Affiliate is, or within the preceding twelve months was, a party to or participant in any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder or any Stockholder Affiliate with respect to the corporation's securities, (iv) a representation as to the existence and nature of any agreement or understanding between the proposing stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate (including the identity(ies) of any Stockholder Affiliate) in connection with bringing the proposal, and (v) a representation as to any material interest of the proposing stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate in the subject matter of the proposal.  The requirements of this Section 9 are in addition to any other applicable requirements.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, if the stockholder (or a designated representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present the proposed business, such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation.
Notice of Business Other Than Nominations for Director
                           "Stockholder Affiliate" of any stockholder means (x) any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under common control or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (y) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the corporation owned of record or beneficially by the stockholder and (z) any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under common control or acting in concert with such Stockholder Affiliate.
                                                             
Board of Directors
                           SECTION 1.  .  The board of directors shall be chosen at the annual meeting of the stockholders.  The number of directors shall be twelve, and the directors shall hold office for terms as provided in the articles of incorporation.  This number may be increased or decreased at any time by amendment of these bylaws, but shall always be a number of not less than three.  Directors need not be stockholders.  Directors shall hold office until their successors are elected.
Election, Number and Term
                           SECTION 2.  .  Except as provided in Section 4 of this Article II, each director shall be elected by a majority of votes cast with respect to the director nominee at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present; if, as of the expiration of the time when a stockholder may give notice of a nomination of a director pursuant to Section 7 of this Article II, the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by stockholders, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes properly cast in such election.   
Manner of Election
provided that
                           If an incumbent director is not reelected, the director shall offer his or her resignation promptly to the Board of Directors.  Within 90 days following certification of the election results, the Board of Directors shall act on the offered resignation.  In determining whether to accept the offered resignation, the Board of Directors shall consider any recommendation of the Governance and Nominating Committee, the factors considered by that committee and any additional information and factors that the Board of Directors believes to be relevant.  Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the Governance and Nominating Committee recommendation or Board of Directors' action regarding whether to accept the offered resignation.
                           SECTION 3.  .  A majority of the number of directors fixed by these bylaws shall constitute a quorum.  If less than a quorum is present at a meeting, then a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting to a fixed time and place, no further notice of any adjourned meeting being required.
Quorum
                           SECTION 4.  .  Any vacancy arising among the directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase by not more than thirty percent in the number of directors elected by the stockholders, may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors though less than a quorum unless sooner filled by the stockholders.
Vacancies
                           SECTION 5.  .  Meetings of the board of directors shall be held at times fixed by resolution of the board or upon the call of the chief executive officer or lead director, if one has been appointed by the board of directors, or of onethird of the members of the board.  Notice of any meeting not held at a time fixed by a resolution of the board shall be given to each director at least two days before the meeting by delivering such notice to him at his residence or business address or by telephoning or electronically transmitting it to him as set forth in this Section at least one day before the meeting.  Notice may be given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the director to whom the notice is given.  Any such consent shall be revocable by the director by written notice to the corporation.  Notice given pursuant to this Section shall be deemed given:  (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the director has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the director has consented to receive notice; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the director of such specific posting when such notice is directed to the record address of the director or to such other address at which the director has consented to receive notice, upon the later of such posting or the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when consented to by the director.  Any such notice shall contain the time and place of the meeting.  Meetings may be held without notice if all the directors are present or those not present waive notice before or after the meeting.  The chief executive officer, or any director he may designate, shall preside over all meetings of directors.  The lead director, if one has been appointed by the board of directors, shall preside over meetings of the outside directors.
Meetings
                           SECTION 6.  .  The board of directors may by resolution designate an executive committee and one or more other committees, each of which shall consist of two or more directors. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board of directors and except as otherwise provided by law, shall have and may exercise the powers and authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation.
Committees
                           SECTION 7.  .  Except as otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors.  Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at any annual meeting of the stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) by any stockholder (i) who is a stockholder on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 6 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who gives to the corporation notice in writing of the nomination, provided that such written notice is received at the principal executive office of the corporation, addressed to the secretary of the corporation, not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred sixty (160) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; clause (b) of this Section 6, Article II, shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations, and any candidate proposed by a stockholder not nominated in accordance with clause (b) and the other provisions of this Section 6 shall not be considered or acted upon for election to the board at such meeting of stockholders.  The written notice given to the corporation shall include all the information about each nominee that would be required by applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included for nominees listed in the proxy statement for such meeting and shall also include (i) the name and address of the nominating stockholder, (ii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of the capital stock of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and/or of record by such stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate and (B) any derivative positions with respect to the corporation's securities held or beneficially held by the nominating stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate and whether and to the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder or any Stockholder Affiliate with respect to the corporation's securities, and (iii) a representation as to the existence and nature of any agreement or understanding between the nominating stockholder and any Stockholder Affiliate (including the identity(ies) of any Stockholder Affiliate) in connection with the nomination of the candidate(s).  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, if the stockholder (or a designated representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination, such nomination shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may been received by the corporation.
Nominations of Directors
                                                                      
Officers
                           SECTION 1.  .  The board of directors, promptly after its election in each year, may elect a chairman of the board and shall elect a president (one of whom shall be designated chief executive officer), a secretary and a treasurer, and may elect one or more vice chairmen and vice presidents and may appoint such other officers as it may deem proper.  Any officer may hold more than one office except that the same person shall not be president and secretary.  Each officer shall hold office until his successor is elected or until his death or until he resigns or is removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
Election, Number and Term
                           SECTION 2.  .  Any officer may be removed at any time by the vote of the board of directors and any officer or agent appointed otherwise than by the board of directors may be removed by any officer having authority to appoint that officer or agent.
Removal
                           SECTION 3.  .  Vacancies among the officers elected by the board of directors shall be filled by the directors.
Vacancies
                           SECTION 4.  .  The chief executive officer, subject to the control of the board of directors, shall in general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the corporation.  All officers and agents, other than officers or agents elected or appointed by the board of directors, shall be appointed by the chief executive officer or by the heads of departments, subject to the approval of the chief executive officer.  Unless otherwise specifically provided in these bylaws or by direction of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or, at his direction, any officer, employee or agent of the corporation designated by him, may sign and execute all representations, securities, conveyances of real and personal property, leases, licenses, releases, contracts and other obligations and instruments in the name of the corporation.         
The Chief Executive Officer
                           SECTION 5.  .  The vice chairmen and the vice presidents shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to them by the chief executive officer or by the board of directors.  In the absence of the chief executive officer, or in the event of his death, inability or refusal to act, the officer designated by the chief executive officer or the board of directors shall perform the duties of the chief executive officer, and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the chief executive officer.  Any vice chairman or vice president may sign, with the secretary or an assistant secretary, certificates for shares of the corporation.
The Vice Chairmen and Vice Presidents
                           SECTION 6.  .  The secretary shall:  (a) keep the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders and the board of directors in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these bylaws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and see that the seal of the corporation is affixed to all documents the execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized; (d) keep a register of the post office address of each stockholder which shall be furnished to the secretary by such stockholders; (e) sign with the chairman of the board, a vice chairman, the president, or a vice president, certificates for shares of the corporation, the issuance of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the board of directors; (f) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the corporation; and (g) in general perform all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the chief executive officer or by the board of directors.
The Secretary
                           SECTION 7.  .  If required by the board of directors, the treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the board of directors shall determine.  He shall:  (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation; receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such moneys in the name of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of these bylaws; (b) when duly authorized, disperse all moneys belonging or coming to the corporation; and (c) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the chief executive officer or by the board of directors.
The Treasurer
                           SECTION 8.  .  The assistant secretaries, when authorized by the board of directors, may sign with the chairman of the board, a vice chairman, the president or a vice president certificates for shares of the corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by a resolution of the board of directors.  The assistant treasurers shall respectively, if required by the board of directors, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the board of directors shall determine.  The assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the secretary or the treasurer, respectively, or by the chief executive officer or the board of directors.
Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers
                           SECTION 9.  .  The salaries of the officers elected by the board of directors shall be fixed by the board of directors.  The salaries of all other officers shall be fixed by the chief executive officer or by the heads of departments, subject to the approval of the chief executive officer.
Salaries
                                                                  ARTICLE IV
                                                          
Checks and Deposits
                           SECTION 1.  .  All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the board of directors.
Checks
and
Drafts
                           SECTION 2.  .  All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as may be selected in a manner authorized by the board of directors.
Deposits
                                                            
Certificate of Stock
                           Each stockholder shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates of stock in such form as may be approved by the board of directors signed by the chairman of the board, a vice chairman, the president or a vice president and by the secretary or an assistant secretary or the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, provided that stock of the corporation may be held in uncertificated form. 
                           The holding and all transfers of stock of the corporation held in uncertificated form shall be effected through a direct registration system operated by a securities depository (as defined in Section 501.01 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual).  Within a reasonable amount of time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send, or cause to be sent, to the registered holder thereof a written notice that includes the information required by subsections B and C of Section 13.1-647 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act.
                           All transfers of stock of the corporation held in certificated form shall be made upon its books by surrender of the certificate for the shares transferred accompanied by an assignment in writing by the holder and may be accomplished either by the holder in person or by a duly authorized attorney in fact.  All transfers of stock of the corporation held in uncertificated form shall be made upon proper instructions from the holder thereof.
                           In case of the loss, mutilation or destruction of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate or uncertificated shares in the place of the previously issued certificate may be issued upon such terms not in conflict with law as the board of directors may prescribe.
                           The board of directors may also appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars and may require stock certificates to be countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar or may require stock certificates to be both countersigned by a transfer agent and registered by a registrar. If certificates of capital stock of the corporation are signed by a transfer agent or by a registrar (other than the corporation itself or one of its employees), the signature thereon of the officers of the corporation and the seal of the corporation thereon may be facsimiles, engraved or printed.  In case any officer or officers who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers of the corporation, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the corporation.
                                                                         
Seal
                           The seal of the corporation shall be a flatfaced circular die, of which there may be any number of counterparts, with the word "SEAL" and the name of the corporation and the state and year of incorporation engraved thereon.
                                                                  ARTICLE VII
                                                                   
Fiscal
Year
                           The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirtyfirst day of December in each year.
                                                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                                           
Voting of Stock Held
                           Unless otherwise ordered by the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or his designee, shall have full power and authority in behalf of the corporation to attend and to act and to vote at any meetings of stockholders of any corporation in which the corporation may hold stock, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock, which, as the owner thereof, the corporation might have possessed and exercised if present, and may sign proxies on behalf of the corporation with respect to any such meeting or sign consents on behalf of the corporation with respect to corporate actions permitted without a meeting of stockholders.  The board of directors, by resolution, from time to time, may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
                                                                 
Amendments
                           These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new bylaws may be adopted by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.
                           Article 14.1 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act ("Control Share Acquisitions") shall not apply to acquisitions of shares of stock of the corporation.

                      (b) -Shares that are subject to the Retention Agreement may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of within such period of time of not less than twenty-four (24) months following the exercise date (in the case of Exercise Gain Shares) or the date of issuance (in the case of Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or Performance Shares), as shall be prescribed by the Committee.         The Committee, in its sole discretion, may require as a condition of a grant of any Award under the Plan that the Participant execute a non-compete, non-solicitation and confidentiality agreement, which agreement shall require that such individual (i) not Engage in Competing Employment (as defined in this Section 14 of the Plan) nor solicit any employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company to Engage in Competing Employment for a specified term following termination of employment (including Retirement), (ii) not solicit customers of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company for a specified term following termination of employment (including Retirement), and (iii) maintain the Corporation's and each Subsidiary Company's confidential information in strict confidence, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may further require as a condition of a grant, exercise, settlement or payment with respect to any Award under the Plan that the Award shall be subject to immediate forfeiture, and all rights of the Participant to such Award shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company, if the Participant Engages in Competing Employment for a specified period of time following termination of employment. The terms of such a non-compete covenant shall be as set forth in the agreement or grant providing the terms of an Award and are incorporated herein by reference. A non-compete covenant shall not apply to the settlement or payment of any Option (although it may apply to the grant or exercise of an Option). Settlement or payment of any other Award that is subject to a non-compete covenant shall occur upon the expiration of the Restriction Period, Performance Cycle, Retention Agreement, or other date upon which the Award would be settled and paid if the Participant had not terminated employment.  
 
Section 1. PURPOSE
 
The purpose of the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("Plan"), as amended, is to promote the success of Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Corporation") and to provide an opportunity for officers and other key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies (as hereinafter defined) to acquire or increase a proprietary interest in the Corporation and thereby to provide an additional incentive to officers and other key employees to devote their maximum efforts and skills to the advancement, betterment, and prosperity of the Corporation and its stockholders. The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance share units, performance shares, shares of the Corporation's common stock (restricted pursuant to the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan) and restricted stock units, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below. The Corporation intends that the Plan comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) and applicable treasury regulations thereunder and intends that compensation paid under the Plan qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Corporation reserves the right to pay compensation under the Plan that does not qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), as circumstances may warrant. The Plan, as amended, is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
 
Section 2. DEFINITIONS
 
The terms used herein shall have the following meanings unless otherwise specified or unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
Section 3. ADMINISTRATION
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have the full and complete authority and sole discretion, except as may be delegated to the Corporation's chief executive officer as provided herein, to construe and interpret the Plan; to select the officers, key employees and non-employee directors who shall be granted Awards under the Plan; to determine the type, size, terms, and conditions of the Award or Awards to be granted to each such Participant; to authorize the grant of such Awards pursuant to the Plan; in connection with the merger or consolidation of the Corporation (and subject to any applicable requirements of Code Section 409A), to give a Participant an election to surrender an Award in exchange for the grant of a new Award; to adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; and to make all other determinations and take all other actions it may deem necessary or advisable for the implementation and administration of the Plan.
 
The Committee in its sole discretion may delegate authority to the Corporation's chief executive officer to select the officers and key employees who shall be granted Awards under the Plan (provided, however, that only the Committee shall grant Awards to the chief executive officer and Executive Officers); to determine the type, size, terms, and conditions of the Award or Awards to be granted to each such Participant; and to authorize the grant of such Awards pursuant to the Plan.
 
The Committee, or the chief executive officer to the extent as may be delegated by the Committee (hereinafter, the term "Committee" shall include reference to the chief executive officer to the extent of any such delegation), may authorize the grant of more than one type of Award, and Awards subject to differing terms and conditions, to any eligible Participant. The Committee's decision to authorize the grant of an Award to a Participant at any time shall not require the Committee to authorize the grant of an Award to that Participant at any other time or to any other Participant at any time; nor shall its determination with respect to the size, type, or terms and conditions of the Award to be granted to a Participant at any time require it to authorize the grant of an Award of the same type or size or with the same terms and conditions to that Participant at any other time or to any other Participant at any time. The Committee shall not be precluded from authorizing the grant of an Award to any eligible Participant solely because the Participant previously may have been granted an Award of any kind under the Plan.
 
All determinations of the Committee shall be by a majority of its members and shall be final, conclusive and binding. Each member of the Committee, while serving as such, shall be considered to be acting in his capacity as a director of the Corporation, and no member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or decision made in good faith with respect to the implementation or administration of the Plan.
 
Section 4. ELIGIBILITY
 
To be eligible for selection by the Committee to participate in the Plan, an individual must be a full-time salaried officer or key employee of the Corporation, or of a Subsidiary Company, and must reside in the United States or Canada, on the date on which the Committee authorizes the grant to such individual of an Award. A non-employee director shall be eligible to participate in the Plan if he or she is a director of the Corporation and is not a full-time salaried employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company on the date on which the Committee authorizes the grant of an Award to non-employee directors.
 
Section 5. SHARES AVAILABLE
 
Since the Plan's establishment in 1983, stockholders have approved up to a maximum of 88,025,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance under the Plan. Subject to approval of the Plan, as hereby amended, by the separate vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, at which a quorum for the proposal is present, an additional 8,100,000 shares of Common Stock are approved for issuance pursuant to the Plan as of May 13, 2010. Awards that are made in a form other than Options or Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights and that are granted under the Plan after May 13, 2010, shall be counted against the share limit set forth in the previous sentence as 1.61 shares for every one share issued in connection with such Award. Such shares shall be provided from shares of Common Stock authorized but not issued. Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted in full against the number of shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Exercise Gain Shares issued upon settlement of the Stock Appreciation Right.
 
If any shares of Common Stock subject to an Award are forfeited, cancelled, exchanged or surrendered or if an Award otherwise terminates or expires without a distribution of shares to the Participant (including by reason of such Award being settled in cash), the shares with respect to such Award shall, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, exchange, surrender, termination or expiration, again be available for Awards under the Plan; provided, however, in the case of a stock-based Award that is not an Option or Stock Appreciation Right and that was made after May 13, 2010, 1.61 shares for each share underlying such Award shall again be available for Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following shares of Common Stock may not again be made available for award under the Plan: (i) shares of Common Stock not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right or Option; (ii) shares of Common Stock used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an outstanding award, or (iii) shares of Common Stock repurchased on the open market with proceeds of an Option exercise.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, no Participant may be awarded a grant in any one year, which, when added to any other grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units in the same year, shall exceed 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock. If an Option is canceled, the canceled Option continues to count against the maximum number of shares for which Options may be granted to a Participant in any year.
 
Section 6. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
 
        (a) -The Committee may authorize the grant of Incentive Stock Options subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. The grant of an Incentive Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Optionee, setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option evidenced thereby and the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable thereto. The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to an Incentive Stock Option also shall be subject to the provisions of any Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
General
 
Except for adjustments pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan, the Option Price for any outstanding Option granted under the Plan may not be decreased after the date the Option is granted, nor may an outstanding Option be modified or replaced if the effect would be to reduce the Option Price, nor may an outstanding Option be cancelled in exchange for cash or another Award, unless such repricing, modification or replacement is approved by the vote of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation at which a quorum is present.
 
(b) -The Committee shall determine the Option price for each share of Common Stock purchased under an Option, but, subject to the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan, in no event shall the Option price be less than the greater of (i) one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Option is granted, or (ii) the price at which the Corporation's Common Stock was last sold in the principal United States market for such Common Stock on the Award Date.
Option Price
 
(c) -The Committee shall fix the term or duration of Options, provided that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted, and that such term shall be subject to earlier termination pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (g) of this Section 6.
Duration of Options
 
(d) -Options may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by him, and following his death only by his Beneficiary. If a Beneficiary dies after the Optionee, but before the Option is exercised and before such rights expire, such rights shall become assets of such Beneficiary's estate. Except as provided in this paragraph, Options may not be assigned or alienated, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
Non-Transferability of Options
 
(e) -The Committee shall determine the time or times at which Options may be exercised; provided that such time or times shall not occur before the latest of:
Exercise of Options
 
(i) the first anniversary of the date on which the Option was granted; and
 
(ii) the effectiveness of any registration statement required to be filed under the Securities Act of 1933 for the registration of the Common Stock to be issued upon exercise of the Option.
 
(f) -The purchase price of Common Stock upon exercise of an Option shall be paid in full to the Corporation at the time of the exercise of the Option in cash or, at the discretion of the Committee and subject to any limitations or requirements that the Committee may adopt, by the surrender to the Corporation of shares of previously acquired Common Stock, which have been held by the Optionee for at least six (6) months and which shall be valued at Fair Market Value on the date that the Option is exercised, or, at the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of cash and such Common Stock.
Payment of Option Price
 
(g) -No Option shall be exercisable after it expires. Each Option shall expire upon the earliest of:
Termination of Options
 
(i) the expiration of the term for which the Option was granted;
 
        (ii)(A) Except as otherwise provided by the Committee in the Award Agreement, in the case of an Optionee whose employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated due to Retirement, Disability or death, the expiration of the term for which the Option was granted, or
 
(B) in the case of an Optionee whose employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, at the close of business on the last day of active service by the Optionee with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, or
(C) in the case of an Optionee who is granted a leave of absence, if the Optionee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at the close of business on the last day of employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, or
 
(iii) in connection with a merger or consolidation of the Corporation, with the Optionee's consent, the grant of a new Award to replace the Option.
 
(h) -The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options (granted on or after January 1, 1987) are exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000, as adjusted under Code Section 422(d)(1) and corresponding Treasury Regulations.
Limitation on Exercisability
 
Section 7. NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS
 
The Committee may authorize the grant of Non-Qualified Stock Options subject to the terms and conditions specified in this Section 7. The grant of a Non-Qualified Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Optionee, setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Non-Qualified Stock Option evidenced thereby and the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable thereto. Non-Qualified Stock Options granted pursuant to the provisions of this Section 7 shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (g) of Section 6 of the Plan. The limitations set forth in paragraph (h) of Section 6 of the Plan shall not apply to Non-Qualified Stock Options. The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Non-Qualified Stock Option also shall be subject to the provisions of any Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
 
Section 8. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
(a) -The Committee may grant a Stock Appreciation Right to a Participant in connection with an Option, or portion thereof, or on a stand alone basis, as determined by the Committee, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 8. If granted in connection with an Option, the Stock Appreciation Right may be granted at the time of grant of the related Option and shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the related Option, except as this Section 8 may otherwise provide. If granted in connection with an Option, the Stock Appreciation Right shall be evidenced by provisions in the Award Agreement evidencing or identifying the related Option, specifying the number of shares of Common Stock subject thereto and setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Stock Appreciation Right. If granted on a stand alone basis, the Stock Appreciation Right shall be evidenced by provisions of a written Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant. The Committee may grant Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights or Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights as shall be set forth in an Award Agreement.
General
 
        Except for adjustments pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan, the terms of an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of the Stock Appreciation Right, nor may an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right be modified or replaced if the effect would be to reduce the exercise price, nor may an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right be cancelled in exchange for cash or another Award, unless such repricing, modification or replacement is approved by the vote of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation at which a quorum is present.
 
(b) -The Committee shall determine the exercise price for any Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis but, subject to the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan, in no event shall the exercise price be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Appreciation Right is granted. The Committee shall fix the term or duration of Stock Appreciation Rights, provided that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date the Stock Appreciation Right is granted, and that such term shall be subject to earlier termination pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this Section 8.
Exercise Price and Duration
 
(c) -If granted in connection with an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only at such time or times, to such extent, and by such persons, as the Option to which it relates shall be exercisable. If granted on a stand alone basis, a Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only at such time or times, to such extent, and by such persons, as shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.
Exercise
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the following restrictions:
 
(i) the Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised before the expiration of one (1) year from the date on which it was granted; provided, however, that this subparagraph (i) shall not apply if the death or Disability of the Optionee occurs within one (1) year after the grant of the Stock Appreciation Right; and,
 
(ii) a Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option may not be exercised on any date on which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock is less than or equal to the Option price per share under the related Incentive Stock Option.
 
A Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercised by providing the Corporation with a written notice in such form and containing such information (including the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is being exercised) as the Committee may specify. If the Stock Appreciation Right was granted in connection with an Option, the Participant must surrender the related Option, or the portion thereof pertaining to the shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, and the date on which the Corporation receives such notice shall be the date on which the related Option, or portion thereof, shall be deemed surrendered and the Stock Appreciation Right shall be deemed exercised.
 
(d) -Upon the proper exercise of a Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Exercise Gain Shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the grant date, multiplied by the number of Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Payment
 
Upon the proper exercise of a Stock-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option, an Optionee shall be entitled to receive Exercise Gain Shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Option price per share of the related Option, multiplied by the number of shares covered by the related Option, or portion thereof, surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right. The Exercise Gain Shares shall be subject to the provisions of any Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan.
 
Upon the proper exercise of a Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis, a Participant shall be entitled to receive cash equal to the value of the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Fair Market Value on the grant date, multiplied by the number of Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Rights surrendered for settlement.
 
Upon the proper exercise of a Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option, an Optionee shall be entitled to receive cash equal to the value of the number of shares of Common Stock that have an aggregate Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the exercise date exceeds the Option price per share of the related Option, multiplied by the number of shares covered by the related Option, or portion thereof, surrendered in connection with the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(e) -A Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option shall expire, unless previously exercised or canceled, upon the expiration of an Option to which it relates, or upon such time as may be set forth in an Award Agreement. A Stock Appreciation Right granted on a stand alone basis shall be subject to the termination provisions set forth in paragraph (g) of Section 6 for Options and shall expire, unless previously exercised or cancelled, at such time as may be set forth in an Award Agreement.
Termination of Right
 
(f) -A Stock Appreciation Right shall be canceled when, and to the extent that, it or a related Option is exercised, and an Option shall be canceled when, and to the extent that, the Option is surrendered to the Corporation upon the exercise of a related Stock Appreciation Right.
Effect of Exercise
 
Section 9. RESTRICTED SHARES
 
(a) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Restricted Shares to a Participant pursuant to an Award Agreement. A certificate or certificates representing the number of Restricted Shares granted shall be registered in the name of the Participant or held in uncertificated form through a direct registration system or the number of Restricted Shares shall be delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation. Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (g) of this Section 9, any certificate or certificates shall be held by the Corporation for the account of the Participant, and any Restricted Shares held through direct registration or in a brokerage account shall be blocked from sale or transfer. Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (g) of this Section 9, the Participant shall have beneficial ownership of the Restricted Shares, including the right to receive dividends on, and the right to vote, the Restricted Shares. Any dividends declared during the Restriction Period shall be paid in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors.
General
 
        (b) -The Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that a Participant's entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be subject to achievement of a specified Performance Goal or Goals during the Restriction Period. If so, the Committee shall select the Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, the Performance Goal for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, and the Performance Criteria Weighting Percentage for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the Restriction Period. The Committee may also determine that the Restriction Period shall expire upon achievement of established Performance Goals prior to the established end of the Restriction Period. In determining whether Performance Goals have been achieved, special charges, restructuring charges and unusual or infrequent accounting adjustments which are significant, and restatements or reclassifications, all as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which would have the effect of reducing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be excluded, and which would have the effect of increasing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be included, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines otherwise. At such time as the Committee certifies that the Performance Goals have been achieved, the Committee shall authorize delivery of Restricted Shares (or such percentage of the Restricted Shares as equal the Percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved) for which the Restriction Period has expired. If the Restricted Shares are subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, such Restricted Shares shall be forfeited to the extent Performance Goals are not achieved before the established end of the Restriction Period.
Performance Goal Requirement
 
For Restricted Shares subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. For Restricted Shares not subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, adjust the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the number of Restricted Shares deliverable to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
 
(c) -Until the expiration of the Restriction Period or the lapse of restrictions in the manner provided in paragraph (g) of this Section 9, Restricted Shares shall be subject to the following restrictions and any additional restrictions that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time deem desirable in furtherance of the objectives of the Plan:
Restrictions
 
(i) the Participant shall not be entitled to receive the certificate or certificates representing the Restricted Shares, or exercise any ownership over any Restricted Shares held through direct registration or in a brokerage account;
 
(ii) the Restricted Shares may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of; and
 
(iii) the Restricted Shares may be forfeited as provided in paragraphs (b) or (e) of this Section 9, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) and (g) of this Section 9.
 
(d) -If a Participant to whom Restricted Shares have been granted remains in the continuous employment of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company during the entire Restriction Period, or, in the case of a Participant who is a non-employee director, who remains a non-employee director during the entire Restriction Period, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period all restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares shall lapse. When the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares lapse, either:
Distribution of Restricted Shares
 
(i) the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock that were earned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9 shall be delivered to the Participant or,
 
(ii) if the shares were delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of any shares that were earned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9 shall lapse.
        (e) -If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Restricted Shares shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such shares shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not forfeit any rights with respect to any Restricted Shares subject to the Restriction Period, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, at which time the shares shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such shares shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company.
Termination of Employment
 
(f) -If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and no Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and delivery of the Restricted Shares shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, as described in paragraph (d) of this Section 9. If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Shares shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and to the extent that the Committee certifies that Performance Goals have been achieved and delivery of the Restricted Shares shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (d) of this Section 9.
Retirement, Disability or Death
 
(g) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all restrictions with respect to Restricted Shares.
Waiver of Restrictions
 
Section 10. RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
 
(a) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Restricted Stock Units ("Units") to a Participant pursuant to an Award Agreement. Such Units shall be recorded in individual memorandum accounts maintained by the Committee or its agent. The grant of Restricted Stock Units shall entitle the Participant to payment in Restricted Stock Unit Shares or cash, as provided for in the Award Agreement. The Participant shall have no beneficial ownership interest in the Common Stock represented by the Units prior to expiration of the Restriction Period and achievement of any Performance Goals. The Participant shall have no right to vote the Common Stock represented by the Units or to receive dividends (except for any Dividend Equivalents which may be awarded by the Committee in connection with such Units) on the Common Stock represented by the Units. The grant of Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement between the Corporation or Subsidiary Company and the Participant, identifying the number of Units awarded, and setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Units.
General
(b) -The Committee may determine, in its sole discretion, that a Participant's entitlement to payment in cash or Restricted Stock Unit Shares for Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to achievement of a specified Performance Goal or Goals over the duration of the Restriction Period. If so, the Award shall specify when it is granted that the Participant's entitlement to payment is subject to the achievement of the Performance Goal or Goals, and the Committee shall select the Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, the Performance Goals for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof, and the Performance Criteria Weighting Percentage for each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the Restriction Period.
Performance Goal Requirement
 
        The Committee may specify, when the Award is granted, that the Restriction Period shall expire upon achievement of the established Performance Goals prior to the established end of the Restriction Period. In determining whether Performance Goals have been achieved, special charges, restructuring charges and unusual or infrequent accounting adjustments which are significant, and restatements or reclassifications, all as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which would have the effect of reducing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be excluded, and which would have the effect of increasing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be included, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines otherwise. The Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals have been achieved, and shall authorize settlement of Units in cash or Restricted Stock Unit Shares. The Units shall be settled within two and one half months after the end of the year in which the Performance Goals are achieved. Such settlement shall be based on the Fair Market Value on the date all applicable restrictions lapse (or such percentage of the value of the Restricted Stock Units as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved) for which the Restriction Period has expired. If the settlement of Restricted Stock Units is subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, such Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the extent Performance Goals are not achieved before the established end of the Restriction Period.
 
For Restricted Stock Units subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. For Restricted Stock Units not subject to the achievement of Performance Goals, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Restricted Stock Unit Shares delivered for the Restricted Stock Units granted to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
 
(c) -Until the expiration of the Restriction Period and the lapse of any Retention Agreement provided in Section 12, Units shall be subject to the following restrictions and any additional restrictions that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time deem desirable in furtherance of the objectives of the Plan:
Restrictions
 
(i) the grant of Units to a Participant shall not entitle a Participant to receive cash payment or Restricted Stock Unit Shares;
 
(ii) the Units may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of; and,
 
(iii) all or a portion of the Units may be forfeited immediately as provided in paragraph (b) or (e) of this Section 10, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Section 10.
 
(d) -If a Participant to whom Units have been granted remains in the continuous employment of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company during the entire Restriction Period or, in the case of a Participant who is a non-employee director, who remains a non-employee director during the entire Restriction Period, upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and the further expiration of any Retention Agreement applicable to such Units, all restrictions applicable to the Units shall lapse, and the Units shall be settled in cash or in Restricted Stock Unit Shares, based on Fair Market Value on the later of the date all applicable restrictions lapse or any Retention Agreement lapses. Settlement in cash in a single sum or issuance of Restricted Stock Unit Shares shall be made within thirty (30) days following the later of the expiration of the Restriction Period or any Retention Agreement applicable to such Units. The Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of the settlement.
Distribution of Restricted Stock Units
(e) -If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Units shall be forfeited immediately and all rights of the Participant with respect to such Units shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not forfeit all rights with respect to any Units subject to the Restriction Period, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, at which time all rights of the Participant with respect to such Units shall terminate immediately without further obligation on the part of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company.
Termination of Employment
 
(f) -If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and no Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse upon the expiration of the Restriction Period and settlement of Restricted Stock Units shall be made at the end of the Restriction Period to the Participant, or his Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, as described in paragraph (d) of this Section 10. Settlement of the Restricted Stock Units shall be made within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the Restriction Period. The Participant or Beneficiary may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of the settlement.
Retirement, Disability or Death
 
If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of the Retirement, Disability, or death of the Participant in service before the expiration of the Restriction Period and Performance Goals have been imposed, the restrictions on the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse if the Committee certifies that Performance Goals have been achieved, and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units shall be made to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (d) of this Section 10.
 
(g) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all restrictions with respect to Units. If no Performance Goals have been imposed, settlement of the Units shall be made on the same settlement date that would have applied absent the waiver of restrictions. If Performance Goals have been imposed, settlement of the Units shall be made within two and one half months after the end of the year in which all restrictions are either waived or satisfied.
Waiver of Restrictions
 
Section 11. PERFORMANCE SHARES
 
(a) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may from time to time authorize the grant of Performance Share Units to a Participant pursuant to an Award Agreement. Performance Share Units shall entitle the Participant to Performance Shares (or cash in lieu thereof) upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Committee shall select the Performance Criteria, set the Performance Goals and assign Performance Criteria Weighting Percentages to each Performance Criterion or each combination thereof within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the Performance Cycle. Performance Share Units may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, conveyed, or hypothecated.
General
 
        After the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee shall certify in writing to what extent the Performance Goals have been achieved. In determining whether Performance Goals have been achieved, special charges, restructuring charges and unusual or infrequent accounting adjustments which are significant, and restatements or reclassifications, all as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which would have the effect of reducing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be excluded, and which would have the effect of increasing the percentage of Performance Goals achieved shall be included, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines otherwise. The Committee shall thereafter authorize the payment to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death after the end of the Performance Cycle, of (i) cash in lieu of Performance Shares (or such percentage of the value of the Performance Shares as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved), or (ii) either (1) the issuance of Performance Shares registered in the name of the Participant or (2) the electronic delivery of Performance Shares to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation (in either case equal to such percentage of the value of the Performance Shares as equal the percentage of Performance Goals that have been achieved), subject to the provisions of any Retention Agreement that may be required by the Committee under Section 12 of the Plan, or (iii) both. Settlement in cash or issuance of Performance Shares shall be made within two and one half months after the end of the year in which the Performance Goals are achieved.
(b) -In addition, the Committee may review the individual performance of any of the Corporation's Executive Officers and may, at its discretion, reduce the cash settlement or number of Performance Shares deliverable to any such Executive Officer by between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the individual performance of any Participant other than an Executive Officer and may, at his discretion, adjust the cash settlement or number of Performance Shares deliverable to any such Participant by between 0% and 125%, based on the individual's performance.
Individual Performance Reviews
 
(c) -If the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated before the end of a Performance Cycle for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, the Participant shall forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle. If the Participant is granted a leave of absence before the end of a Performance Cycle, the Participant shall not forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle, unless the Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company terminates at any time during or at the end of the leave of absence, at which time the Participant shall forfeit all rights with respect to any Performance Shares that were being earned during the Performance Cycle. If the Participant's employment is terminated before the end of a Performance Cycle by reason of Retirement, Disability, or death, the Participant's rights with respect to any Performance Shares being earned during the Performance Cycle shall, subject to the other provisions of this Section 11, continue as if the Participant's employment had continued through the end of the Performance Cycle.
Distribution or Forfeiture of Performance Shares
 
Section 12. RETENTION AGREEMENTS
(a) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may require as a condition of a grant, exercise, settlement or payment with respect to any Award under the Plan that the Participant and the Corporation enter into a Retention Agreement, which shall provide, (1) with respect to an Award of Restricted Stock Units, that the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units in Restricted Stock Unit Shares or cash shall not occur until the event specified in the Retention Agreement that is part of the Award, or (2) with respect to any portion of any Exercise Gain Shares, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or Performance Shares, that (i) the certificate or certificates representing any such Awards, when issued, shall be held by the Secretary of the Corporation for the benefit of the Participant until such time as the retention period specified by the Retention Agreement has expired or has been waived by the Committee, whichever occurs first, or (ii) that any such Award, when delivered by electronic delivery to a brokerage account established for the Participant's benefit at a financial/brokerage firm selected by the Corporation or by direct registration and held in uncertificated form, shall not be permitted to be transferred or sold until such time as the retention period specified by the Retention Agreement has expired or has been waived by the Committee, whichever occurs first.
General
 
        Any dividends payable on shares subject to a Retention Agreement shall be paid to the Participant in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors. Each Retention Agreement may include some or all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this Section 12.
 
Retention Period
 
(c) -If a Participant's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company is terminated for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, or death, shares subject to the Retention Agreement shall continue to be held, following the Participant's termination of employment, until the expiration of the retention period specified by the Retention Agreement. If the Participant's employment is terminated by reason of Retirement or Disability, shares then held subject to the Retention Agreement shall continue to be held until the expiration of the applicable retention period following termination of employment, but any such retention period shall cease upon the earlier of the Participant's attainment of age 65 or the expiration of two (2) years after the Participant's Retirement or Disability, if either of those events occurs before the expiration of the applicable retention period. If the Participant dies while shares are subject to a retention period under the Retention Agreement, such retention period shall expire immediately at the time of death.
Termination of Employment
 
(d) -If a Participant is granted a leave of absence, shares subject to the Retention Agreement shall continue to be held during the leave of absence, until the expiration of the retention period specified by the Retention Agreement.
Leave of Absence
 
(e) -Upon a Change in Control, the retention periods specified by all Retention Agreements shall immediately expire; provided, however, that any such waiver shall not accelerate the settlement of any Restricted Stock Units in a manner that would violate the requirements of Code Section 409A.
Change in Control
 
A Change in Control shall occur if:
 
(i) any person, other than the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company, shall become the beneficial owner of, or obtain voting control over, 20% or more of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock;
 
(ii) (A) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation occurs in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which holders of Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger as immediately before, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation occurs; or
 
(iii) there shall have been a change in the composition of the Board of Directors such that within any period of two (2) consecutive years or less individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted such Board, together with any new directors whose election, or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then in office who were directors at the beginning of such period, shall for any reason no longer constitute a majority of the directors of the Corporation.
 
        If the expiration of a Retention Agreement pursuant to this paragraph (f) causes a Participant to be subject to an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto (the "Excise Tax"), the Corporation shall make a cash payment, either directly to the Participant or on the Participant's behalf, in an amount that the Committee estimates to be equal (after taking into account any Federal and state taxes, including interest and penalties, that the Committee estimates to be applicable to the additional cash payment) to the additional Excise Tax imposed on the Participant as a result of the expiration of the Retention Agreement. In determining the amount to be paid pursuant to this subparagraph, the Committee may adopt such methods and assumptions as it considers appropriate, and it shall not be required to examine the individual tax liability of each Participant to whom this subparagraph applies.
 
(g) -The Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive any or all retention periods or other restrictions in the Share Retention Agreement, provided that the waiver of restrictions does not accelerate the payment of any Restricted Stock Units in a manner that would violate the requirements of Code Section 409A.
Waiver of Requirements
 
(f) -The Corporation shall cause the shares subject to a Retention Agreement to be distributed to the Participant, or the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death, upon expiration of the retention period or other termination or waiver of the restrictions under this Section 12. The Corporation shall cause the Restricted Stock Units subject to a Retention Agreement to be distributed to the Participant upon the expiration of the retention period or to the Participant's Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death.
Distribution of Shares and Restricted Stock Units
 
Section 13. DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT PAYMENTS
 
The Committee may authorize the immediate payment, in cash or in Common Stock, of Dividend Equivalents on some or all of the shares of Common Stock covered by Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, as specified in the Award Agreement required under Section 6(a), Section 7 or Section 8(a) of the Plan. Dividend Equivalents payable on options may be paid in cash or Common Stock, at the discretion of the Committee.
 
The Committee may authorize the immediate or deferred payment of Dividend Equivalents on some or all of the shares of Common Stock covered by Restricted Stock Units that are not subject to Performance Goals, as specified in the Award Agreement required under Section 10 of the Plan. Dividend Equivalents payable on Restricted Stock Units may be paid in cash or converted to additional Restricted Stock Units, at the discretion of the Committee and as specified in the Award Agreement.
 
The Committee may authorize the deferred payment of Dividend Equivalents on some or all of the shares of Common Stock covered by Restricted Stock Units that are subject to Performance Goals, or by Performance Share Units, as specified in the Award Agreement described in Sections 10 or 11 of the Plan. Deferred Dividend Equivalents shall be paid only to the extent Performance Goals are achieved with respect to such Performance Share Units or Restricted Stock Units, and shall be distributed at the same time as the underlying Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Unit Shares, or cash equivalents thereto. Deferred Dividend Equivalents payable on Performance Share Units or on Restricted Stock Units that are subject to a Performance Goal may be paid in cash, or converted to additional Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Unit Shares (as applicable), at the discretion of the Committee and as specified in the Award Agreement.
 
Notwithstanding the above, Dividend Equivalents shall not be made or accumulated during a Participant's leave of absence. If Dividend Equivalents provided under this section are to be paid immediately, the Dividend Equivalents shall be paid in cash on the date declared by the Board of Directors for the payment of dividends on Common Stock. If Dividend Equivalents provided under this section are to be deferred, the deferred Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or forfeited when the underlying Award is paid or forfeited.
 
Section 14. NON-COMPETE COVENANT
 
 
For purposes of the provision, "Engages in Competing Employment" shall mean to work for or provide services for any Competitor, on the Participant's own behalf or in the service of or on behalf of others, including, but not limited to, as a consultant, independent contractor, owner, officer, partner, joint venturer, or employee, at any time during the specified period commencing on the date of his or her termination of employment (including Retirement). "Competitor" shall mean any entity in the same line of business as the Corporation in North American markets in which the Corporation competes, including, but not limited to, any North American Class I rail carrier, any other rail carrier competing with the Corporation (including without limitation a holding or other company that controls or operates or is otherwise affiliated with any rail carrier competing with the Corporation), and any other provider of transportation services competing with Corporation, including motor and water carriers.
 
Section 15. CAPITAL ADJUSTMENTS
 
In the event of a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, exchange, combination, or reclassification of shares, merger, consolidation, reorganization, or other change in or affecting the capital structure or capital stock of the Corporation, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Committee, may make appropriate adjustments in the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for the Plan and in the annual limitation imposed by Section 5 of this Plan; and the Committee may make appropriate adjustments in the number of shares subject to outstanding Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units, or Performance Share Unit grants, and in the Option price of any then outstanding Options, as it deems equitable, in its absolute discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants.
 
Section 16. REGULATORY APPROVALS
 
        The exercise of each Option and Stock Appreciation Right, and the grant or distribution of Restricted Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares, shall be subject to the condition that if at any time the Corporation shall determine in its discretion that the satisfaction of withholding tax or other tax liabilities, or the listing, registration, or qualification of any shares of Common Stock upon any securities exchange or under any Federal or state law, or the consent or approval of any regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, such exercise, grant, or distribution, then in any such event such exercise, grant, or distribution shall not be effective unless such liabilities have been satisfied or such listing, registration, qualification, consent, or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Corporation.
Section 17. TERM OF THE PLAN
 
 
Awards may be granted from time to time under the terms and conditions of the Plan, but no Incentive Stock Option may be granted after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of adoption of the Plan, as amended on May 13, 2010, by the Board of Directors; provided, that any future amendment to the Plan that is approved by the stockholders of the Corporation in the manner provided under Section 18 of this Plan shall be regarded as creating a new Plan, and an Incentive Stock Option may be granted under such new Plan until the expiration of ten (10) years from the earlier of the approval by the Board of Directors, or the approval by the stockholders of the Corporation, of such new Plan. Incentive Stock Options theretofore granted may extend beyond the expiration of that ten-year period, and the terms and conditions of the Plan shall continue to apply thereto and to shares of Common Stock acquired upon the subsequent exercise of an Incentive Stock Option or related Stock Appreciation Right.
 
Section 18. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
 
The Corporation may at any time and from time to time alter or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or may at any time suspend or terminate the Plan, through resolution of its Board of Directors, provided that no change in any Awards theretofore granted to any Participant may be made which would impair or diminish the rights of the Participant without the Participant's consent, and provided further, that no alteration or amendment may be made without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Common Stock then outstanding and entitled to vote if (a) such stockholder approval is necessary to comply with the requirements of any rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or such other Federal or state laws or regulations as may be applicable, (b) the amendment materially increases the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, (c) materially increases the number of securities that may be issued under the Plan, or (d) materially modifies the requirements for participation in the Plan.
 
Section 19. FORFEITURE AND RECOUPMENT EVENTS
 
The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.
 
Any Award to a Participant under this Plan is subject to reduction, forfeiture, or recoupment to the extent provided under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or as may be provided under any other applicable law.
 
Section 20. MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a) -The Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver any fractional share of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the award of Performance Shares, the payment of a dividend equivalent in Common Stock pursuant to Section 13 of the Plan or the withholding of shares of Common Stock for payment of taxes required to be withheld, but may pay, in lieu thereof, an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.
Fractional Shares
 
        (b) -The Corporation and its Subsidiary Companies shall have the right, to the extent permitted by law, to deduct from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to Awards under the Plan, and to the extent any such withholding requirements are not satisfied, each Participant shall pay to the Corporation any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to Awards under the Plan. The Corporation shall have the right to withhold shares of Common Stock, including fractional shares, from payment as necessary to satisfy any withholding obligations, but may only withhold the minimum number of shares necessary to do so. If fractional shares are withheld, any remaining fractional shares shall be paid in cash to the Participant as provided under paragraph (a) of this Section 20. The Participant or Beneficiary shall remain responsible at all times for paying any Federal, state or local taxes of any kind with respect to Awards under the Plan. In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any interest or penalty that a Participant or Beneficiary incurs by failing to make timely payments of tax.
Withholding
 
(c) -No person shall have any rights of a stockholder by virtue of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, or Performance Share Unit except with respect to shares of Common Stock actually issued to him, and the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall confer no retroactive right to dividends. A Participant's right to receive Dividend Equivalents shall not, by itself, confer upon the Participant the rights or privileges of a stockholder.
Stockholder Rights
 
(d) -This Plan shall not be deemed to be an employment contract between the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company and any Participant or other employee. Nothing contained herein, or in any agreement, certificate or other document evidencing, providing for, or setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to any Awards shall be deemed to confer upon any Participant or other employee a right to continue in the employment of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company, or to interfere with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary Company to terminate the employment of such Participant or employee at any time.
No Contract of Employment
 
(e) -Except as may otherwise be provided in the Plan, the Plan shall be unfunded. Neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be required to segregate any assets that may be represented by Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Share Units, or Restricted Stock Units, and neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary Company shall be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Share Unit, or Restricted Stock Unit. Any liability of the Corporation to pay any Participant or Beneficiary with respect to an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Share Unit, or Restricted Stock Unit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created pursuant to the provisions of the Plan; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or encumbrance on any property of the Corporation or a Subsidiary Company.
Unfunded Plan
 
(f) -The Plan, its validity, interpretation, and administration, and the rights and obligations of all persons having an interest therein, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, except to the extent that such laws may be preempted by Federal law.
Applicable Law
 
(g) -Wherever used in the Plan, words in the masculine form shall be deemed to refer to females as well as to males, and words in the singular or plural shall be deemed to refer also to the plural or singular, respectively, as the context may require.
Gender and Number
 
(h) -The Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. The Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Code Section 409A with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment, however. In no event shall the Corporation or the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A, or as a result of the Plan's failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.
Code Section 409A

 
The terms of this amended Plan, as set forth below, are subject to approval by the separate vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present or represented and entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation at which a quorum is present for the proposal.
 
Section I. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
 
It is the purpose of the Norfolk Southern Corporation Executive Management Incentive Plan ("Plan") to enhance increased profitability for Norfolk Southern Corporation ("Corporation") by rewarding certain officers elected by the Board of Directors of Norfolk Southern Corporation and its affiliates with a bonus for collectively striving to attain and surpass financial objectives. The Corporation intends that the Plan comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code") and intends that compensation paid under the Plan qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m).
 
Section II. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
 
The Compensation Committee, the Performance-Based Compensation Committee or any other committee of the Board of Directors of Norfolk Southern Corporation which is authorized to determine bonus awards under the Plan ("Committee") shall administer and interpret this Plan and, from time to time, adopt such rules and regulations and make such recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning Plan changes as are deemed necessary to insure effective implementation of this Plan. The Performance-Based Compensation Committee shall be comprised solely of two or more Outside Directors (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.162-27(e)(3)).
 
No executive may simultaneously participate in more than one Norfolk Southern Corporation Incentive Group. An executive must reside in the United States or Canada in order to participate in the Plan.
 
Section III. ESTABLISHMENT OF PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
 
Within the first 90 days of an incentive year, the Committee shall establish:
 
Section IV. TYPE OF INCENTIVE BONUS
 
On or before a date which shall not be later than the date that is six months prior to the last day of the incentive year to which the performance standards established pursuant to Section III apply for any incentive bonus that is performance-based compensation, as defined in Code Section 409A, and which shall not be later than the last day of the year prior to the incentive year to which the performance standards established pursuant to Section III apply for any incentive bonus that is not performance-based compensation, as defined in Code Section 409A, each participant must elect to receive any incentive bonus which may be awarded to him or her for the incentive year either 100% cash or deferred in whole or in part. A participant shall be permitted to defer only 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% of the bonus for any incentive year. If the participant elects to receive 100% cash, the entire amount of the bonus for the incentive year shall be distributed to the participant, or to his or her estate in the event of the participant's death, on or before March 1 of the year following the incentive year. If deferred in whole or in part, the amount deferred shall be allocated to the Norfolk Southern Corporation Executives' Deferred Compensation Plan (and such deferrals will be governed by the provisions of that plan) on or before March 1 of the year following the incentive year and the remainder, if any, shall be distributed in cash to the participant, or to his or her estate in the event of the participant's death, on or before March 2 of the year following the incentive year.
 
Failure on the part of the participant to elect a deferral by the date specified, either in whole or in part for the incentive year, shall be deemed to constitute an election by such participant to receive the entire incentive bonus for the incentive year as a cash bonus.
 
Section V. BONUS AWARDS
 
At the end of the incentive year, the Committee shall certify in writing to what extent the performance standards established pursuant to Section III have been achieved during the incentive year and shall determine the Corporate Performance Factor based on such achievement. In determining the Corporate Performance Factor, special charges and restructuring charges, and unusual or infrequent accounting adjustments which are significant, and restatements or reclassifications, all as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which would have the effect of reducing the Corporate Performance Factor shall be excluded, and which would have the effect of increasing the Corporate Performance Factor shall be included, unless the Committee shall determine otherwise.
 
        A participant's bonus award shall be determined by multiplying the Corporate Performance Factor by the participant's bonus level, with the result multiplied by the participant's total salary paid during the incentive year. The bonus award payable to a participant for an incentive year shall not exceed three tenths of one percent (0.3%) of the Corporation's income from railway operations for the incentive year. The Committee may review the performance of any of the Corporation's Covered Employees, as defined in Code Section 162(m), and may, at its discretion, reduce the bonus award of any such Covered Employee between 0% and 100%, based on the individual's performance. The Corporation's chief executive officer may review the performance of any participant who is not a Covered Employee and may, at his discretion, adjust the bonus award of any such participant between 0% and 125%.
 
If the employment of a participant who is employed by Norfolk Southern Corporation or its affiliates during the incentive year terminates prior to the end of such year by reason of (1) death, or (2) normal retirement, early retirement or total disability under applicable Norfolk Southern Corporation plans and policies, then the phrase "total salary paid during the incentive year" means base salary paid to the participant during that portion of such year of employment prior to his or her termination and through the end of the calendar month or payroll period in which employment terminates but excludes any cash paid with respect to such participant's unused vacation. No incentive bonus for any incentive year shall be awarded or paid to any participant whose employment with Norfolk Southern Corporation and all its affiliates terminates before the end of such incentive year for a reason other than one of those specifically stated in the preceding sentence.
 
If a participant becomes eligible for the Plan during the year or becomes eligible for a different Incentive Group, then the amount of the award shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect such changes.
 
Section VI. REIMBURSEMENT OF EXCESS BONUS TO CORPORATION
 
The Board of Directors may require reimbursement of all or any portion of an excess bonus paid under the Plan if (a) financial results are restated due to the material noncompliance of the Corporation with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and (b) an excess bonus was distributed within the three-year period prior to the date the applicable restatement was disclosed. For this purpose, "excess bonus" means the positive difference, if any, between (i) the bonus paid to the participant and (ii) the bonus that would have been paid to the participant had the bonus been calculated on the correct Corporate Performance Factor using the restated financial results. The Corporation will not be required to award an additional bonus to a participant if a restated Corporate Performance Factor would result in a higher bonus payment.
 
Any bonus to a participant under this Plan is subject to reduction, forfeiture, or recoupment to the extent provided under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or as may be provided under any other applicable law.
 
Section VII. NO GUARANTEE OF CONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT
 
Nothing contained in this Plan or in any designation of a participant hereunder shall constitute or be deemed to constitute any evidence of an agreement or obligation on the part of Norfolk Southern Corporation or its affiliates to continue to employ any such participant for any period whatsoever.
 
Section VIII. AMENDMENT TO AND TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation reserves the right at any time by a resolution duly adopted by its Board of Directors to amend this Plan in any manner or to terminate it at any time, except that no such amendment or termination shall deprive a participant of any rights hereunder theretofore legally accrued, and no such termination shall be effective for the year in which such resolution is adopted.
 
Section IX. FUNDING SOURCE
 
All amounts that are payable under this Plan shall be paid for from the general assets of the Corporation. There is no trust or other fund from which amounts under this Plan shall be paid.
 
Section X. GOVERNING LAW
 
        This Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to the extent not superseded by the Code or other federal law.
 
Section XI. NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF BENEFITS
 
A participant's right to receive a payment hereunder is not subject in any manner to anticipation, allocation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to accomplish any of these acts shall be void.


