FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20110915155200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
See description under Item 2.03
 
   
Item 2.03.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation of a Registrant
 
On September 14, 2011, the Registrant issued $595,504,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.837% Notes due 2041 (the 2041 Notes) and $4,492,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Senior Notes due 2111 (the 2111 Notes and, together with the 2041 Notes, the New Notes) in exchange for specified series of the Registrants outstanding debt securities, in connection with the expiration of the early exchange date for its previously announced exchange offers.
 
The 2041 Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the 2041 Notes Indenture), between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the Trustee). The 2041 Notes will pay interest semiannually at a rate of 4.837% per annum and will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Registrant's option, at any time and from time to time, at a redemption price payable in cash equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a specified rate, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the redemption date.  The 2041 Notes Indenture contains negative covenants and events of default that are consistent with the provisions of the Registrant's existing indentures. The 2041 Notes Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1, and the description of the 2041 Notes Indenture contained herein is qualified by reference thereto.
 
The 2111 Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of May 23, 2011, and as further supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture thereto (the Third Supplemental Indenture), dated as of September 14, 2011, in each case between the Registrant and the Trustee (together, the 2111 Notes Indenture). The 2111 Notes will pay interest semiannually at a rate of 6.00% per annum and will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Registrant's option, at any time and from time to time, at a redemption price payable in cash equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a specified rate, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the redemption date.  The 2111 Notes Indenture contains negative covenants and events of default that are consistent with the provisions of the Registrant's existing indentures. The Third Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2, and the description of the 2111 Notes Indenture contained herein is qualified by reference thereto.
 
On September 14, 2011, in connection with the issuance of the New Notes, the Registrant entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with the dealer managers (the "Dealer Managers").  Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Registrant has agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 180 days after
 
 
 
 
 
 the final settlement date of the exchange offers, and use commercially reasonable efforts to have declared effective within 270 days from such final settlement date, an exchange offer registration statement pursuant to which the Registrant will issue, in exchange for tendered New Notes, registered securities containing terms identical to the New Notes in all material respects.  The Registration Rights Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.3, and the description of the Registration Rights Agreement contained herein is qualified by reference thereto.
 
The Trustee and its affiliates, as well the Dealer Managers and their respective affiliates, have, from time to time, performed, and may in the future perform, various financial advisory, commercial banking and investment banking services for the Registrant, for which they received or will receive customary fees and expenses and none of which are material individually or in the aggregate with respect to any individual party.
 
The New Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. This report does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 15, 2011
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
Note:  This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purposes, be deemed to be part of this Indenture.
 
1
 
INDENTURE dated as of September 14, 2011, between NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (the Company), and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the Trustee).
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041, to be issued, from time to time, as provided in this Indenture:
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01.  
Definitions
.
 
, when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.05.
Act
 
 has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
 
 of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, control when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms controlling and controlled have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
 means, with respect to the Securities, on any day within the 60-day period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any Rating Agency) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control; or (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention by the Company to effect a Change of Control, the Securities are rated below Investment Grade by each and every Rating Agency.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Companys request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Ratings Event).
Below Investment Grade Ratings Event
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized and constituted committee thereof.
Board of Directors
 
 
2
 
 
 means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
 
 means any day, other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation, executive order or governmental decree to close.
Business Day
 
 means any obligation arising out of any lease of property which is required to be classified and accounted for by the lessee as a capitalized lease on a balance sheet of such lessee under generally accepted accounting principles.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
 means the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person or group (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or its Subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Companys Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Companys Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed measured by voting power rather than number of shares.
Change of Control
 
 means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event with respect to the Securities.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
 
 or  means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
SEC
 
 means the Person named as the Company in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter Company shall mean such successor Person and, for purposes of any provision contained herein and expressly required by the TIA, each other obligor on the indenture securities.
Company
 
 or  means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by an Officer and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
 
 means, at any date, the total assets appearing on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and Restricted Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal quarter of the Company ending not more than 135 days prior to such date, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, less (i) all current liabilities (due within one year) as shown on such balance sheet, (ii) applicable reserves, (iii) investments in and advances to Securitization Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries of Securitization Subsidiaries that are consolidated on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (iv) Intangible Assets and liabilities relating thereto.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
 
3
 
 means the principal office of the Trustee in the City of New York at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Corporate Trust Office
 
 means a corporation, association, company, limited liability company, joint-stock company, partnership or business trust.
Corporation
 
  means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
 or  or any similar reference shall mean the coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollars
$
 
 has the meaning set forth under Section 6.01.
Event of Default
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
 means (i) any indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary maturing more than 12 months after the time of computation thereof, (ii) guarantees by a Restricted Subsidiary of Funded Debt or of dividends of others (except guarantees in connection with the sale or discount of accounts receivable, trade acceptances and other paper arising in the ordinary course of business), (iii) all preferred stock of such Restricted Subsidiary and (iv) all Capital Lease Obligations of a Restricted Subsidiary.
Funded Debt
 
 means the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
 
 means, at any date, without duplication, (i) all obligations for borrowed money of a Restricted Subsidiary or any other indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary, evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments and (ii) Funded Debt, except such obligations and other indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary and Funded Debt, if any, incurred as part of a Securitization Transaction.
Indebtedness
 
 means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively.
Indenture
 
 means at any date, the value (net of any applicable reserves) as shown on or reflected in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal quarter of the Company ending not more than 135 days prior to such date, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, of: (i) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights, service marks, goodwill and other like intangibles; (ii) organizational and development costs; (iii) deferred charges (other than prepaid items, such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents, deferred interest waiver, compensation and similar items and tangible assets being amortized); and (iv) unamortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
Intangible Assets
 
 
4
 
 means, with respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa3 or better (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moodys); with respect to S&P, a rating of BBB- or better (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and, with respect to any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating.
Investment Grade
 
 means September 14, 2011.
Issue Date
 
 means such pledges, mortgages, security interests and other liens, including purchase money liens, on property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which secure Funded Debt.
Liens
 
, when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, request for repayment or otherwise.
Maturity
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moodys Corporation, and its successors.
Moodys
 
 means any indebtedness for money borrowed or indebtedness evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness.
Obligation
 
 means the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
 means a certificate signed by two Officers of the Company, at least one of whom shall be the principal executive officer or principal financial officer of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers Certificate
 
 means a written opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee.  The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
 
, when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
 
(i)           Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(ii)           Securities for whose payment or redemption money or U.S. Government Obligations as contemplated by Section 8.01 in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
 
 
5
 
(iii)           Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 2.07 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgees right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
 
 means any individual, corporation, company (including any limited liability company), association, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
 
, when used with respect to the Securities, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Appendix A.
Place of Payment
 
 of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
 
 means Norfolk Southern Railway Company.
Principal Subsidiary
 
 means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind upon any indebtedness of the Principal Subsidiary acquired after the date any Securities are first issued if such Purchase Money Lien is for the purpose of financing, and does not exceed, the cost to the Company or any Subsidiary of acquiring the indebtedness of the Principal Subsidiary and such financing is effected concurrently with, or within 180 days after, the date of such acquisition.
Purchase Money Lien
 
 means (1) each of Moodys and S&P; and (2) if either of Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
 
 
6
 
 mean any right of payment from or on behalf of any obligor, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising, either directly or indirectly, from the financing by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company of property or services, monies due thereunder, security interests in the property and services financed thereby and any and all other related rights.
Receivables
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.12.
Repurchase Date
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.12.
Repurchase Offer
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.12.
Repurchase Price
 
, when used with respect to the Trustee, means any vice president,  any assistant vice president, any trust officer or assistant trust officer or any assistant controller or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performance by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject, and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
 means each Subsidiary of the Company other than Securitization Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries of Securitization Subsidiaries.
Restricted Subsidiary
 
 means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
 
 means indebtedness for money borrowed which is secured by a mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or encumbrance on property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, but shall not include guarantees arising in connection with the sale, discount, guarantee or pledge of notes, chattel mortgages, leases, accounts receivable, trade acceptances and other paper arising, in the ordinary course of business, out of installment or conditional sales to or by, or transactions involving title retention with, distributors, dealers or other customers, of merchandise, equipment or services.
Secured Debt
 
 or  means any of the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041 authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, including the Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.
Security
Securities
 
 means the Securities Act of 1933.
Securities Act
 
 means a Subsidiary of the Company (i) which is formed for the purpose of effecting one or more Securitization Transactions and engaging in other activities reasonably related thereto and (ii) as to which no portion of the Indebtedness or any other obligations (a) is guaranteed by any Restricted Subsidiary, or (b) subjects any property or assets of any Restricted Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to any lien, other than pursuant to representations, warranties and covenants (including those related to servicing) entered into in the ordinary course of business in connection with a Securitization Transaction and inter-company notes and other forms of capital or credit support relating to the
Securitization Subsidiary
 
 
7
 
transfer or sale of Receivables or asset-backed securities to such Securitization Subsidiary and customarily necessary or desirable in connection with such transactions.
 
 means any transaction or series of transactions that have been or may be entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with or reasonably related to a transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (i) a Securitization Subsidiary or (ii) any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables or asset-backed securities or interest therein (whether such Receivables or securities are then existing or arising in the future) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto, including, without limitation, all security interests in the property or services financed thereby, the proceeds of such Receivables or asset-backed securities and any other assets which are sold in respect of which security interests are granted in connection with securitization transactions involving such assets.
Securitization Transaction
 
 means any Subsidiary that would be a Significant Subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the Commission.
Significant Subsidiary
 
 means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company which are customary in an accounts receivable securitization transaction involving a comparable company.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
 
 means, with respect to any Security, October 1, 2041.
Stated Maturity
 
 means, in respect of any Person, any corporation, company (including any limited liability company), association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which a majority of the total voting power of the Voting Stock is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by:
Subsidiary
 
(a) such Person;
 
(b) such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person; or
 
(c) one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
 
Unless otherwise required by the context, Subsidiary shall refer to a Subsidiary of the Company.
 
  or  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 9.05; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, Trust Indenture Act means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
TIA
provided
however
 
 means the Person named as the Trustee in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter Trustee shall mean such successor Trustee.
Trustee
 
 
8
 
 means the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time.
Uniform Commercial Code
 
 means direct obligations of the United States for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged, or obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States and the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government obligations or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligations held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligations or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligations evidenced by such depository receipt.
U.S. Government Obligations
 
, when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title vice president.
Vice President
 
 of any specified person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
 means, in respect of any Person, a Subsidiary with respect to which such Person owns, directly or indirectly, all of the Voting Stock.  Unless otherwise required by the context, Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall refer to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
SECTION 1.02.  
Other Definitions
.
 
9
 
 
SECTION 1.03.  
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
.  This Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA, which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.  The following TIA terms have the following meanings:
 
Commission means the SEC.
 
indenture securities means the Securities.
 
indenture security holder means a Holder.
 
indenture to be qualified means this Indenture.
 
indenture trustee or institutional trustee means the Trustee.
 
obligor on the indenture securities means the Company and any other obligor on the indenture securities.
 
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
SECTION 1.04.  
Rules of Construction
.  For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
the terms defined in this Section have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular;
(1)
 
all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(2)
 
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term generally accepted accounting principles with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation;
(3)
 
the words herein, hereof, and hereunder and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
(4)
 
 
10
 
headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation.
(5)
 
SECTION 1.05.  
Acts of Holders
.  (a)  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the Act of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided is this Section.
 
(b)           The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgements of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority.  The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
(c)           At any time, the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Registrar.
 
(d)           Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01.  
Amount of Securities;
Issuance of Securities
.  (a)  The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.  All Securities shall rank pari passu in all respects and shall be identical in all respects other than issue prices, issuance dates (including the date for the first payment of interest) and, in the case of Securities other than Original Securities or Securities issued on a date that is April 1 or October 1, accrual of interest prior to the issuance dates. The Company may issue any Securities without notice to or consent of Holders of any Outstanding Securities. The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities shall vote and act together as a single class under this Indenture.
 
 
11
 
(b)           Subject to Section 2.03, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities for original issue on the Issue Date in the aggregate principal amount of $595,504,000 (the Original Securities).  With respect to any Securities issued after the Issue Date (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities pursuant to Section 2.07, 2.09, 3.06, 4.12(d) or 9.06 or Appendix A), there shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth, or determined in the manner provided in an Officers Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of such Securities:
 
the aggregate principal amount of such Securities to be issued on the issuance date of such Securities;
(1)
 
the issue price and issuance date of such Securities, including the date from which interest on such Securities shall accrue;
(2)
 
if applicable, that such Securities shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the respective depositories for such Global Securities; the form of any legend or legends that shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of that set forth in Exhibit 1 to Appendix A and any circumstances in addition to or in lieu of those set forth in Section 2.3 of Appendix A in which any such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered; and any transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered in the name or names of Persons other than the depository for such Global Security or a nominee thereof; and
(3)
 
if applicable, that such Securities shall not be issued in the form of Initial Securities subject to Appendix A, but shall be issued in the form of Exchange Securities as set forth in Exhibit B.
(4)
 
SECTION 2.02.  
Form and Dating
.  Provisions relating to the Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities are set forth in Appendix A, which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made part of this Indenture.  The Initial Securities and the Trustees certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made a part of this Indenture.  The Exchange Securities and the Trustees certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, which is hereby incorporated in and expressly made a part of this Indenture.  The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule, agreements to which the Company is subject, if any, or usage, provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement is in a form reasonably acceptable to the Company.  Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. If the form of the Securities conflict or are inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, then the form of Securities shall control.
 
SECTION 2.03.  
Execution and Authentication
.  (a)  An Officer (and for purposes of this Section 2.03, the term Officer shall include any Vice President of the Company authorized by the Board of Directors) shall sign the Securities for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
 
 
12
 
(b)           If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Security, the Security shall be valid nevertheless.
 
(c)           At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such written order of the Company shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. Other than in the case of the Original Securities, such written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities shall be in the form of an Officers Certificate.
 
(d)           A Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Security.  The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
(e)           The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate the Securities.  Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent.  An authenticating agent has the same rights as any Registrar, Paying Agent or agent for service of notices and demands.
 
SECTION 2.04.  
Registrar and Paying Agent
.  (a)  The Company shall maintain an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the Registrar) and an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for payment (the Paying Agent).  The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange.  The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents.  The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent.
 
(b)           The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA.  Such agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent.  The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any such agent.  If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07.  The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
(c)           The Company hereby appoints the Trustee as initial Registrar and initial Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
 
SECTION 2.05.  
Paying Agent To Hold Money in Trust
.  Prior to each due date of the principal and interest on any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal and interest when so becoming due.  The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the
 
 
13
 
payment of principal of or interest on the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment.  If the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund.  The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent.  Upon complying with this Section 2.05, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
 
SECTION 2.06.  
Holder Lists
.  The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders.  If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders.
 
SECTION 2.07.  
Replacement Securities
.  (a)  If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that such Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee.  Such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar and any co-registrar from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced.  The Company and the Trustee may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Security.
 
(b)           Every replacement Security is an additional obligation of the Company.
 
SECTION 2.08.  
Outstanding Securities
.  (a)  Securities outstanding at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding.  A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Security.
 
(b)           If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
 
(c)           If the Paying Agent segregates and holds in trust, in accordance with this Indenture, on a redemption date or the Stated Maturity money sufficient to pay all principal and interest payable on that date with respect to the Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed or maturing, as the case may be, then on and after that date such Securities (or portions thereof) cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
 
SECTION 2.09.  
Temporary Securities
.  Until definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities.  Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities.  Without
 
 
14
 
unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Securities and deliver them in exchange for temporary Securities.
 
SECTION 2.10.  
Cancellation
.  The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment.  The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and will dispose of all cancelled Securities in accordance with its customary procedures unless the Company directs the Trustee to deliver canceled Securities to the Company.  The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has redeemed, paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
SECTION 2.11.  
Defaulted Interest
.  If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Securities, the Company shall pay the defaulted interest (plus interest on such defaulted interest to the extent lawful) in any lawful manner.  The Company may pay the defaulted interest to the persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date.  The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed any such special record date and payment date to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee and shall promptly mail to each Holder a notice that states the special record date, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest to be paid.
 
SECTION 2.12.  
CUSIP Numbers
.  The Company in issuing the Securities may use CUSIP numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; , , that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any defect in the CUSIP number that appears on any Security, check, advice of payment or redemption notice, and any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP number(s).
provided
however
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  
Notices to Trustee
.  (a)  If the Company elects to redeem Securities pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Securities or is required to redeem Securities pursuant to paragraph 8 of the Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the redemption date, the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and that such redemption is being made pursuant to either paragraph 5 or paragraph 8 of the Securities.
 
(b)           The Company shall give each notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 3.01 at least 45 days before the redemption date unless the Trustee consents to a shorter period.  Such notice shall be accompanied by an Officers Certificate from the Company to the effect that such redemption will comply with the conditions herein.
 
 
15
 
Selection of Securities To Be Redeemed
SECTION 3.02.  
.  If fewer than all the Securities are to be redeemed pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Securities, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by a method that complies with applicable legal and securities exchange requirements, if any, and that the Trustee considers fair and appropriate and in accordance with methods generally used at the time of selection by fiduciaries in similar circumstances.  The Trustee shall make the selection from outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption.  The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal of Securities that have denominations larger than $2,000.  Securities and portions of them the Trustee selects shall be in amounts of $2,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000.  Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption.  The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of the Securities or portions of Securities to be redeemed.
 
SECTION 3.03.  
Notice of Redemption
.  (a)  At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a date for redemption of Securities, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at such Holders registered address.  The notice shall identify the Securities (including CUSIP number(s)) to be redeemed and shall state:
 
the redemption date;
(1)
 
the redemption price;
(2)
 
the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(3)
 
that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
(4)
 
if fewer than all the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the identification and principal amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(5)
 
that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, interest on Securities (or portion thereof) called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date, and the only remaining right of the Holders is to receive payment of the redemption price upon surrender to the Paying Agent; and
(6)
 
that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Securities.
(7)
 
(b)           At the Companys written request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Companys name and at the Companys expense.  In such event, the Company shall provide the Trustee with the information required by this Section 3.03 at least 45 days before the redemption date.
 
SECTION 3.04.  
Effect of Notice of Redemption
.  Once notice of redemption is mailed, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the redemption date and at the redemption price stated in the notice.  Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities
 
 
16
 
shall be paid at the redemption price stated in the notice, plus accrued interest, if any, to the redemption date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the related interest payment date that is on or prior to the date of redemption).  Failure to give notice of any defect in the notice to any Holder shall not affect the validity of the notice to any other Holder.
 
SECTION 3.05.  
Deposit of Redemption Price
.  Prior to or by 10:00 a.m., New York City time on the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest, if any (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the related interest payment date that is on or prior to the date of redemption), on all Securities to be redeemed on that date other than Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption that have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
SECTION 3.06.  
Securities Redeemed in Part
.  Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder (at the Companys expense) a new Security equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01.  
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.  The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. References in this Indenture and the Securities to interest on the Securities shall be deemed to include Additional Interest, if any.
 
SECTION 4.02.  
Maintenance of Office or Agency
.  (a)  The Company will maintain or cause to be maintained in each Place of Payment for the Securities an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served, and the Company hereby initially appoints the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
(b)           The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain
 
 
17
 
an office or agency in each Place of Payment for the Securities for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
 
SECTION 4.03.  
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
.  (a)  If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to the Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(b)           Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for the Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(c)           The Company will cause each Paying Agent for the Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
 
hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(1)
 
give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities; and
(2)
 
at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
(3)
 
(d)           The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
(e)           Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request or (if
 
 
18
 
then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
 
SECTION 4.04.  
Corporate Existence
.  Subject to Article V, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and that of each Subsidiary and the rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise or to retain any Subsidiary if the Company shall determine that the preservation or retention thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
 
SECTION 4.05.  
Maintenance of Properties
.  The Company will cause all properties deemed by the Company to be necessary and useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in such condition, repair and working order and supplied with such equipment and will cause to be made such repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary or appropriate in the performance of its business, provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation and maintenance of any of such properties, or disposing of any of them, if such discontinuance or disposal is, in the judgment of the Company or of the Subsidiary concerned, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
 
SECTION 4.06.  
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
.  The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, and, in each case, only if the failure to pay or discharge could be disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or otherwise and the Company shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto (if and to the extent required by generally accepted accounting principles).
 
SECTION 4.07.  
Limitations on Liens on Stock or Indebtedness of Principal Subsidiary
.  For so long as any Securities issued pursuant to this Indenture are Outstanding, the Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind, other than a Purchase Money Lien, upon any stock or indebtedness, whether owned on the date the Securities are first issued or thereafter acquired, of any Principal Subsidiary, to secure any Obligation (other than the Securities) of the Company, any Subsidiary or any other person, without in any such case making effective provision whereby all of the Outstanding Securities shall be directly secured equally and ratably with such Obligation.  This Section shall not (i) apply to any
 
 
19
 
mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest on any stock or indebtedness of a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, (ii) restrict any other property of the Company or its Subsidiaries or (iii) restrict the sale by the Company or any Subsidiary of any stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary.
 
SECTION 4.08.  
Limitations on Funded Debt
.  (a)  For so long as any Securities issued pursuant to this Indenture are Outstanding, the Company will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to incur, issue, guarantee or create any Funded Debt unless, after giving effect thereto, the sum of the aggregate amount of all outstanding Funded Debt of the Restricted Subsidiaries would not exceed an amount equal to 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
(b)           This Section shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded from Funded Debt in any computation pursuant hereto, Funded Debt secured by: (i) Liens on real or physical property of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary; (ii) Liens on real or physical property existing at the time of acquisition thereof incurred within 180 days of the time of acquisition thereof (including, without limitation, acquisition through merger or consolidation) by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (iii) Liens on real or physical property thereafter acquired (or constructed) by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and created prior to, at the time of, or within 270 days after such acquisition (including, without limitation, acquisition through merger or consolidation) (or the completion of such construction or commencement of commercial operation of such property, whichever is later) to secure or provide for the payment of all or any part of the purchase price (or the construction price) thereof; (iv) Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (v) Liens in favor of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, or any agency, department or other instrumentality thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or the provisions of any statute, (vi) Liens incurred or assumed in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; (vii) Liens securing the performance of any contract or undertaking not directly or indirectly in connection with the borrowing of money, the obtaining of advances or credit or the securing of Funded Debt, if made and continuing in the ordinary course of business; (viii) Liens incurred (no matter when created) in connection with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary engaging in a leveraged or single-investor lease transaction; provided, however, that the instrument creating or evidencing any borrowings secured by such Lien will provide that such borrowings are payable solely out of the income and proceeds of the property subject to such Lien and are not a general obligation of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (ix) Liens under workers compensation laws, unemployment insurance laws or similar legislation, or good faith deposits in connection with bids, tenders, contracts or deposits to secure public or statutory obligations of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or deposits of cash or obligations of the United States of America to secure surety, repletion and appeal bonds to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party or in lieu of such bonds, or pledges or deposits for similar purposes in the ordinary course of business, or Liens imposed by law, such as laborers or other employees, carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens and vendors Liens and Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary at the time shall be prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review and with respect to which it shall have secured a stay of execution pending such appeal or proceedings for review, or Liens for taxes not yet subject to
 
 
20
 
penalties for nonpayment or the amount or validity of which is being in good faith contested by appropriate proceedings by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, or minor survey exceptions, minor encumbrances, easement or reservations of, or rights of others for, rights-of-way, sewers, electric lines, telegraph and telephone lines and other similar purposes, or zoning or other restrictions or Liens on the use of real properties which Liens, exceptions, encumbrances, easements, reservations, rights and restrictions do not, in the opinion of the Company, in the aggregate materially detract from the value of said properties or materially impair their use in the operation of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries; (x) Liens incurred to finance construction, alteration or repair of any real or physical property and improvements thereto prior to or within 270 days after completion of such construction, alteration or repair; (xi) Liens incurred (no matter when created) in connection with a Securitization Transaction; (xii) Liens on property (or any Receivable arising in connection with the lease thereof) acquired by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary through repossession, foreclosure or like proceeding and existing at the time of the repossession, foreclosure, or like proceeding; (xiii) Liens on deposits of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary with banks (in the aggregate, not exceeding $50 million), in accordance with customary banking practice, in connection with the providing by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of financial accommodations to any person in the ordinary course of business; or (xiv) any extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of the foregoing.
 
SECTION 4.09.  
Waiver of Certain Covenants
.  The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 4.01 and 4.08 of this Indenture with respect to the Securities if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the rights and duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 4.10.  
Statement as to Compliance
.  The Company will deliver to the Trustee, by May 1 of each year, a written statement, signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, stating, as to each signer thereof, that
 
a review of the activities of the Company during such year and of performance under this Indenture has been made under his supervision, and
(1)
 
to the best of his knowledge, based on such review, (a) the Company has fulfilled all its obligations under this Indenture throughout such year, or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such obligation, specifying each such default known to him and the nature and status thereof, and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default, or, if such an event has occurred and is continuing, specifying each such event known to him and the nature and status thereof.
(2)
 
 
21
 
SECTION 4.11.  
[
Reserved
]
 
SECTION 4.12.  
Change of Control
.  (a)  If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Securities, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of the Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price (the Repurchase Price) in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to, but not including, the Repurchase Date (defined below). Within 30 days following a Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to a Change of Control, but after the public announcement of a Change of Control, the Company will mail, or cause to be mailed, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the payment date specified in the notice (such offer the Repurchase Offer and such date the Repurchase Date), which Repurchase Date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Repurchase Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the Repurchase Date.
 
(b)           The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities by virtue of such conflict.
 
(c)           On the Repurchase Date following a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Repurchase Offer;
(1)
 
deposit with the Trustee or with such Paying Agent as the Trustee may designate an amount equal to the aggregate Repurchase Price for all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
(2)
 
deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being repurchased by the Company pursuant to the Repurchase Offer and that all conditions precedent to the repurchase by the Company of Securities pursuant to the Repurchase Offer have been complied with.
(3)
 
 
22
 
(d)           The Trustee will promptly mail, or cause the Paying Agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Securities, or portions of Securities, properly tendered the Repurchase Price for such Securities or portions of Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered, as applicable; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
(e)           The Company will not be required to make a Repurchase Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
(f)           The parties acknowledge that the Company may not have sufficient funds to repurchase all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
.
SECTION 4.13.  
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
 
The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount, if any, of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01.  
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
.  The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person unless:
 
           in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another corporation or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(1)
 
 
23
 
           immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
(2)
 
           the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
(3)
 
SECTION 5.02.  
Successor Corporation Substituted
.  Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company into any other corporation or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor corporation shall be relieved.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01.  
Event of Default
 wherever used herein with respect to a Security, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
           default in the payment of any interest upon any Security when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(1)
 
           default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at its Maturity; or
(2)
 
           default in the performance, or breach, of any other covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture, and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a
(3)
 
 
24
 
written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a Notice of Default hereunder; or
 
           a default under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness for money borrowed or guaranteed by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or under any mortgage, indenture, equipment trust agreement or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed or guaranteed by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary (including this Indenture and including indebtedness in respect of capitalized lease obligations), whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, which, together with all other such defaults, shall have resulted in such indebtedness, in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000, becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, without such indebtedness having discharged, or such acceleration having been rescinded or annulled, or a sum of money sufficient to discharge in full such indebtedness is not deposited in trust, within a period of 10 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a written notice specifying such default and requiring the Company to cause such indebtedness to be discharged or cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled and stating that such notice is a Notice of Default hereunder; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Section 7.02, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of such default unless either (A) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have actual knowledge of such default or (B) the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the Company, from any Holder, from the holder of any such indebtedness or from the trustee under any such mortgage, indenture or other instrument; or
(4)
 
           the entry by a court having jurisdiction is the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(5)
 
           the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or
(6)
 
 
25
 
order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action.
 
SECTION 6.02.  
Acceleration
.  (a)  If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities affected thereby may declare the principal amount of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on all of the Securities to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount, premium, if any, and accrued interest shall become immediately due and payable.
 
(b)           At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Securities has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
 
           the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(1)
 
                 all defaulted interest on all Securities in accordance with Section 2.11,
(A)
 
                 the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any of the Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in the Securities,
(B)
 
                 to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(C)
 
                 all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
(D)
 
           all Events of Default with respect to the Securities, other than the nonpayment of the principal of Securities which have become due solely by such
(2)
 
 
26
 
declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.04.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 6.03.  
Other Remedies
.  (a)  If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of or interest on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture.
 
(b)           The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default.  No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy.  All available remedies are cumulative.
 
SECTION 6.04.  
Waiver of Past Defaults
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding by notice to the Trustee may waive an existing Default and its consequences except (i) a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on a Security or (ii) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder of the Securities.  When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
 
SECTION 6.05.  
Control by Majority
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities.  However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.01, that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability; , , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction.
provided
however
 
SECTION 6.06.  
Limitation on Suits
.  (a)  A Holder of a Security may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities unless:
 
such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
(1)
 
the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding shall have made a written request, and such Holder or Holders shall have offered indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee, to the Trustee to pursue a remedy; and
(2)
 
the Trustee has failed to institute such proceeding and has not received from the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
(3)
 
 
27
 
Securities outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, within 60 days after such notice, request and offer.
 
(b)           The foregoing limitations on the pursuit of remedies by a Holder shall not apply to a suit instituted by a Holder for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on such Security on or after the applicable due date specified in such Security. A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
 
SECTION 6.07.  
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of and interest on the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
SECTION 6.08.  
Collection Suit by Trustee
.  If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.09.  
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
.  The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.10.  
Priorities
.  (a)  If the Trustee collects any money or property pursuant to this Article VI, it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
 
FIRST:  to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
 
SECOND:  to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities for principal and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Securities for principal and interest, respectively; and
 
THIRD:  to the Company.
 
(b)           The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10.  At least 15 days before such record date, the Company
 
 
28
 
shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid.
 
SECTION 6.11.  
Undertaking for Costs
.  In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant.  This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities.
 
SECTION 6.12.  
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
.  The Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01.  
Duties of Trustee
.  (a)  If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Persons own affairs.
 
(b)           Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(1)
 
in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture.  However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(2)
 
 
29
 
(c)           The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own wilful misconduct, except that:
 
this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
(1)
 
the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(2)
 
the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
(3)
 
(d)           Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e)           The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.
 
(f)           Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
(g)           No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers.
 
(h)           Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct, affecting the liability of, or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section and to the provisions of the TIA; the provisions of this Article VII shall apply to the Trustee in its role as Registrar, Paying Agent and Securities Custodian.
 
(i)           The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of a Default or an Event of Default unless (a) the Trustee has received written notice thereof from the Company or any Holder, or (b) a Responsible Officer shall have actual knowledge thereof.
 
SECTION 7.02.  
Rights of Trustee
.  The Trustee may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.  The Trustee may, however, in its discretion make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney.
 
(a)           Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel.  The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the Officers Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel.
 
 
30
 
(b)           The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care and with the consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
(c)           The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers;, , that the Trustees conduct does not constitute wilful misconduct or negligence.
provided
however
 
(d)           The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
 
(e)           The permissive rights of the Trustee to do things enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty unless so specified herein.
 
(f)           In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
(g)           The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
(h)           The Trustee shall not be required to give any bond or surety in respect of the performance of its powers and duties hereunder.
 
SECTION 7.03.  
Individual Rights of Trustee
.  The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.  Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar may do the same with like rights.  However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
 
SECTION 7.04.  
Trustees Disclaimer
.  The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity, priority or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Companys use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities or in the Securities other than the Trustees certificate of authentication.
 
SECTION 7.05.  
Notice of Defaults
.  If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 30 days after it is known to a Responsible Officer or written notice of it is received by the Trustee.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of or interest on any Security, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so
 
 
31
 
long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders.
 
SECTION 7.06.  
Reports by Trustee to Holders
.  (a)  Within 60 days after May 15 of each year beginning with May 15, 2012, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA  313(a), if and to the extent required by such subsection.  The Trustee shall also comply with TIA  313(b).
 
(b)           A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the Commission and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities are listed.  The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee in writing whenever the Securities become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
 
SECTION 7.07.  
Compensation and Indemnity
.  (a)  The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee.  The Trustees compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services.  Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustees agents, counsel, accountants and experts.  The Company shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability, damages, claim or expense (including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses) incurred by it in connection with the acceptance and administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder.  The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder unless the Company has been prejudiced thereby.  The Company shall defend the claim, and the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.  The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustees own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.  The Company need not pay for any settlement made by the Trustee without the Companys consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.  All indemnifications and releases from liability granted hereunder to the Trustee shall extend to its officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns.
 
(b)           To secure the Companys payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Securities.
 
(c)           The Companys payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the discharge of this Indenture.  When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) with respect to the Company, the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
 
 
32
 
Replacement of Trustee
SECTION 7.08.  
.  (a)  The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may remove the Trustee by an Act so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee, that so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company shall have the right to consent to the successor Trustee, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.  The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
provided
 
the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(1)
 
the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
(2)
 
a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(3)
 
the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
(4)
 
(b)           If the Trustee resigns or is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding, and such Holders do not reasonably promptly appoint a successor Trustee, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.
 
(c)           A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company.  Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture.  The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders.  The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
 
(d)           If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(e)           If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(f)           Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Companys obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
 
SECTION 7.09.  
Successor Trustee by Merger
.  (a)  If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or banking association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
 
33
 
(b)           In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.
 
SECTION 7.10.  
Eligibility; Disqualification
.  The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a).  The Trustee shall have (or, in the case of a corporation included in a bank holding company system, the related bank holding company shall have) a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its (or its related bank holding companys) most recent published annual report of condition.  The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b), subject to the penultimate paragraph thereof; , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
provided
however
 
SECTION 7.11.  
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
.  The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b).  A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01.  
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
.  (a)  This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect as to all Outstanding Securities or all Outstanding Securities, as the case may be (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when:
 
either:
(1)
 
all Outstanding Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 3.05) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(A)
 
 
34
 
the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust (i) money in Dollars in an amount or, (ii) U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of principal and interest thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment of principal (including any premium) and interest, if any, under the Securities, money in an amount or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii) sufficient in the opinion of the Companys independent certified public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, without consideration of any reinvestment of such interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Outstanding Securities, as the case may be, not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or redemption date, as the case may be;
(B)
 
the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the Securities, as the case may be;
(2)
 
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, to effect that, based on federal income tax laws then in effect, the Holders of the Securities, as the case may be, will not recognize additional income, gain or loss on the Securities, as the case may be, for federal income tax purposes as a result of the Companys exercise of its option under this Section 8.01 and such funds shall be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts and at the same times as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised; and
(3)
 
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities have been complied with.
(4)
 
(b)           Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.07 and, if money and/or U.S. Government Obligations shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (ii) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 8.02 and the last paragraph of Section 4.03 shall survive.
 
SECTION 8.02.  
Application of Trust Money
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4.03(e), all money and U.S. Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01.  
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
.  Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
(1)
 
to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all Securities, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Securities or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(2)
 
to add any additional Events of Default; or
(3)
 
to add to or to change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons; or
(4)
 
to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security outstanding created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
(5)
 
to secure the Securities: or
(6)
 
to establish certain terms of a new issuance of the Securities as permitted by Section 2.01; or
(7)
 
to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities; or
(8)
 
to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect; or
(9)
 
to conform the text of this Indenture or the Securities to any provision of the Description of the 2041 Notes section of the Companys offering memorandum dated August 26, 2011 to the extent that such provision in such
(10)
 
 
36
 
Description of the 2041 Notes section was intended to be a verbatim recitation of a provision of this Indenture or the Securities.
 
SECTION 9.02.  
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
.  (a)  With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
 
change the Stated Maturity of the principal of any Security, or the time for interest payments on any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof,  or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the due date thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date), or
(1)
 
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
(2)
 
modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 6.04 or Section 4.09, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to the Trustee and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 4.09 or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 7.08 and 9.01(8).
(3)
 
(b)           It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
 
(d)           The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to consent to any indenture supplemental hereto. If a record date is fixed, the Holders on such record date or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such supplemental indenture or to revoke (prior to the requisite percentage for such consent to become effective having been obtained) any such consent previously given, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided, that unless such consent shall have become effective by virtue of such requisite percentage having been obtained prior to the date which is 90 days after such record date, such
 
 
37
 
consent shall, automatically and without further action by the Holder, be canceled and of no further force or effect.
 
SECTION 9.03.  
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
.  In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustees own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
SECTION 9.04.  
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.  Upon the execution of a supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
SECTION 9.05.  
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
.  Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
 
SECTION 9.06.  
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
.  Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture.  If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01.  
Trust Indenture Act Controls
.  If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision that is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
 
SECTION 10.02.  
Notices
.  (a)  Any notice, communication or Act shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail or sent by facsimile (with a hard copy delivered in person or by mail promptly thereafter) and addressed as follows:
 
if to the Company:
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
Three Commercial Place
Norfolk, Virginia 23510-2191
facsimile: (757) 629-2381
 
 
38
 
Attention of:  Vice President and Treasurer
 
if to the Trustee:
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association
100 Wall St., Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
facsimile: (212) 809-4993
 
Attention of:  Pat Crowley
 
(b)           The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
(c)           Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holders address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
 
(d)           Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.  If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
SECTION 10.03.  
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
.  Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities.  The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
SECTION 10.04.  
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
.  Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
except in the cases of Section 2.01(b) and, in so far as it relates to the authentication of the Original Securities, Section 2.03 under which, in each case, an Officers Certificate will not be required, an Officers Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
(1)
 
except in the case of Section 3.01 under which an opinion will not be required, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with; , , that with respect to matters of fact an Opinion of Counsel may rely on an Officers Certificate or certificates of public officials.
(2)
provided
however
 
 
39
 
SECTION 10.05.  
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
.  Each certificate with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
a statement that the individual making such certificate has read such covenant or condition;
(1)
 
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements contained in such certificate are based;
(2)
 
a statement that, in the opinion of such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(3)
 
a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
(4)
 
Each opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the party requesting such opinion and the party giving such opinion.
 
SECTION 10.06.  
When Securities Disregarded
.  In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Securities owned by the Company or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Securities that  a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.  Also, subject to the foregoing, only Securities Outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination.
 
SECTION 10.07.  
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
.  The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders.  The Registrar and the Paying Agent or co-registrar may make reasonable rules for their functions.
 
SECTION 10.08.  
Governing Law
; Waiver of Jury Trial
.  THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
SECTION 10.09.  
No Recourse Against Others
.  A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the
 
 
40
 
Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability.  The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
SECTION 10.10.  
Successors
.  All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors.  All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
 
SECTION 10.11.  
Multiple Originals
.  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture.  Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.  One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture. The exchange of copies of this Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Indenture for all purposes.  Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
SECTION 10.12.  
Table of Contents; Headings
.  The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
SECTION 10.13.  
Force Majeure
. In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
.
SECTION 10.14.  
U.S.A. Patriot Act
The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee.  The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
 
 
 
41
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
 
1.  
Definitions
 
1.1  
Definitions
 
Terms used but not defined in this Appendix A have the meaning given to such terms in this Indenture, and the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
 
 means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated.
Dealer Managers
 
 means a certificated Initial Security or a certificated Exchange Security (in each case, bearing, if required, the restricted securities legend set forth in Section 2.3(d)).
Definitive Security
 
 means The Depository Trust Company and its successors.
Depository
 
 means the 40-day distribution compliance period (within the meaning of Rule 902(f) of Regulation S), with respect to the Regulation S Global Securities.
Distribution Compliance Period
 
 means the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041 issued pursuant to this Indenture in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including in connection with a Registered Exchange Offer pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Securities
 
 means the last date on which the Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities are issued.
Final Closing Date
 
 means the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041 issued pursuant to this Indenture in the form of Exhibit A hereto and includes the Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities.
Initial Securities
 
 means the offers by the Company to exchange its 7.90% Notes due 2097, 7.05% Notes due 2037, 7.25% Notes due 2031 and 7.80% Notes due 2027 for the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041 and cash, in accordance with the Companys Offering Memorandum dated August 26, 2011.
Private Exchange Offers
 
 means Initial Securities issued pursuant to the Private Exchange Offers.
Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities
 
 means a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
 
 
A-1
 
 means the offer by the Company, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, to certain Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, to issue and deliver to such Holders, in exchange for the Transfer Restricted Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of Exchange Securities.
Registered Exchange Offer
 
 means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated September 14, 2011, among the Company and the Dealer Manager relating to the Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities, or any similar agreement relating to any other Initial Securities.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
 means all Initial Securities offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A.
Rule 144A Securities
 
 means the custodian with respect to a Global Security (as appointed by the Depository) or any successor person thereto, who shall initially be the Trustee.
Securities Custodian
 
 means a registration statement filed by the Company in connection with the offer and sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
 means Definitive Securities and any other Securities that bear or are required to bear the legend set forth in Section 2.3(c) hereto.
Transfer Restricted Securities
 
1.2  
Other Definitions
 
2.  
The Securities
 
2.1  
Form
 
The Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities will be issued by the Company only to QIBs (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act (Rule 144A)) and, in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act (Regulation S), to persons other than U.S. persons (as defined in Regulation S).  Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities may thereafter be transferred to, among others, QIBs and purchasers in reliance on Regulation S, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein.  Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement dated September 14, 2011, the Company intends to exchange the Private Exchange Offers Initial Securities for Exchange Securities.
 
(a)    Rule 144A Securities shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global certificates in definitive, fully registered form (collectively, the
Global Securities.
 
 
A-2
 
Rule 144A Global Security), Initial Securities initially issued in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more global certificates in definitive, fully registered form (collectively, the Regulation S Global Security), in each case without interest coupons and with the global securities legend and restricted securities legend set forth in Exhibit A hereto, which shall be deposited on behalf of the Holders of the Initial Securities represented thereby with the Securities Custodian, and registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in this Indenture.  The Rule 144A Global Security and Regulation S Global Security are collectively referred to herein as Global Securities.  The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depository or its nominee as hereinafter provided.
 
(b)    This Section 2.1(b) shall apply only to a Global Security deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
Book-Entry Provisions.
 
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.1(b) and pursuant to an order of the Company, authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depository and (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depository or pursuant to the Depositorys instructions or held by the Trustee as Securities Custodian.
 
Members of, or participants in, the Depository (Agent Members) shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depository or by the Trustee as Securities Custodian, and the Depository may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depository or impair, as between the Depository and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices of the Depository governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of a beneficial interest in any Global Security.
 
The Depository, as Holder of the Global Securities, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action that a Holder is entitled to give or take under this Indenture.
 
(c)    Except as provided in Section 2.3 or 2.4, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Definitive Securities.
Definitive Securities.
 
2.2    (a)    When Definitive Securities are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request:
Transfer and Exchange.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities.
 
(x)  to register the transfer of such Definitive Securities; or
 
(y)  to exchange such Definitive Securities for an equal principal amount of Definitive Securities of other authorized denominations,
 
 
A-3
 
the Registrar or co-registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; , , that the Definitive Securities surrendered for transfer or exchange:
provided
however
 
(i)  shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar or co-registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing; and
 
(ii)  if such Definitive Securities bear a restricted securities legend, are being transferred or exchanged pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to clause (A), (B), (C), (D) or (E) below, and are accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
 
(A)  if such Definitive Securities are being delivered to the Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect; or
 
(B)  if such Definitive Securities are being transferred to the Company or any of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, a certification to that effect; or
 
(C)  if such Definitive Securities are being transferred inside the United States to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) acquiring for its own account or for the account of one or more qualified institutional buyers to whom notice is given that such transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, a certification by each of the transferor and the transferee in the form set forth on the reverse of the Initial Security; or
 
(D)  if such Definitive Securities are being transferred outside the United States in an offshore transaction within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect (in the form set forth on the reverse of the Initial Security); or
 
(E)  if such Definitive Securities are being transferred pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or in reliance upon another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, (i) a certification to that effect (in the form set forth on the reverse of the Initial Security) and (ii) if the Company so requests, as provided in the form set forth on the reverse of the Initial Security, an opinion of counsel or other evidence reasonably satisfactory to it as to the compliance with the restrictions set forth in the legend set forth in Section 2.3(c)(i).
 
(b)    (i)  The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with this Indenture (including applicable restrictions on transfer set forth herein, if any) and the procedures of the Depository therefor.  A transferor of a beneficial interest in a Global Security shall deliver a written order given in accordance with the
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities.
 
 
A-4
 
Depositorys procedures containing information regarding the participant account at the Depository to be credited with a beneficial interest in the Global Security, and such account shall be credited in accordance with such instructions with a beneficial interest in the Global Security, and the participant account related to the Person making the transfer shall be debited by an amount equal to the beneficial interest in the Global Security being transferred.
 
(ii)  If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in one Global Security to a beneficial interest in another Global Security, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the Global Security to which such interest is being transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the interest to be so transferred, and the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a corresponding decrease in the principal amount of the Global Security from which such interest is being transferred.
 
(iii)  If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in a Rule 144A Global Security to a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Security, the transferor of such beneficial interest shall deliver to the Registrar (A) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto if such transfer occurs prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period and (B) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto if such transfer occurs after the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period.
 
(iv)  If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Security to a beneficial interest in a Rule 144A Global Security and such transfer occurs prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the transferor of such beneficial interest shall deliver to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto.
 
(v)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Appendix A (other than the provisions set forth in Section 2.4), a Global Security may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
(vi)  In the event that a Global Security is exchanged for Definitive Securities pursuant to Section 2.4 prior to the consummation of a Registered Exchange Offer or the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities, such Securities may be exchanged only in accordance with such procedures as are substantially consistent with the provisions of this Section 2.3 (including the certification requirements set forth on the reverse of the Initial Securities intended to ensure that such transfers comply with Rule 144A, Regulation S or such other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act, as the case may be) and such other procedures as may from time to time be adopted by the Company.
 
(c)  
Legend.
 
 
A-5
 
(i)  Except as permitted by the following paragraphs (ii) and (iii), each certificate evidencing the Global Securities and the Definitive Securities (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or in substitution thereof) shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
 
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), IS NOT ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION OR ANY WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) IN THE UNITED STATES, SO LONG AS THE NEW NOTES REMAIN ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHO IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ONE OR MORE OTHER QIBS  IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT SUCH RESALE, PLEDGE OR TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION
 
 
A-6
 
FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
Each Definitive Security will also bear the following additional legend:
 
PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
(ii)  After a transfer of any Initial Securities during the period of the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Initial Securities, all requirements pertaining to restricted securities legends on such Initial Security will cease to apply, and an Initial Security in global form without restricted security legends will be available to the transferee of the beneficial interests of such Initial Securities.  Upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances described in this paragraph, the Company will deliver an Officers Certificate to the Trustee instructing the Trustee to issue Securities without restricted security legends.
 
(iv)  Upon the consummation of a Registered Exchange Offer, Exchange Securities in global form without the restricted security legends will be available to Holders or beneficial owners that exchange such Initial Securities (or beneficial interests therein) in such Registered Exchange Offer.  Upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances described in this paragraph, the Company will deliver an Officers Certificate to the Trustee instructing the Trustee to issue Securities without restricted security legends.
 
(d)    At such time as all beneficial interests in a Global Security have either been exchanged for Definitive Securities, redeemed, repurchased or canceled, such Global Security shall be returned by the Depository to the Trustee for cancellation or retained and canceled by the Trustee.  At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for Definitive Securities, redeemed, repurchased or canceled, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Security shall be reduced, and an adjustment shall be made on the books and records of the Trustee (if it is then the Securities Custodian for such Global Security) with respect to such Global Security, by the Trustee or the Securities Custodian, to reflect such reduction.
Cancellation or Adjustment of Global Security.
 
(e)  
Obligations with Respect to Transfers and Exchanges of Securities.
 
 
A-7
 
(i)  To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Definitive Securities and Global Securities at the Registrars or co-registrars request.
 
(ii) No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax, assessments, or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes, assessments or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 3.06, 4.12 and 9.06 of this Indenture).
 
(iii)  The Registrar or co-registrar shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Security for a period beginning 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption or an offer to repurchase Securities or 15 days before an interest payment date.
 
(iv)  Prior to the due presentation for registration of transfer of any Security, the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar or any co-registrar may deem and treat the person in whose name a Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security is overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar or any co-registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(v)  All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange pursuant to the terms of this Indenture shall evidence the same debt and shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
 
(f)  .
No Obligation of the Trustee
 
(i)  The Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any beneficial owner of a Global Security, a member of, or a participant in the Depository or any other Person with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Depository or its nominee or of any participant or member thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Securities or with respect to the delivery to any participant, member, beneficial owner or other Person (other than the Depository) of any notice (including any notice of redemption or repurchase) or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Securities.  All notices and communications to be given to the Holders and all payments to be made to Holders under the Securities shall be given or made only to the registered Holders (which shall be the Depository or its nominee in the case of a Global Security).  The rights of beneficial owners in any Global Security shall be exercised only through the Depository subject to the applicable rules and procedures of the Depository.  The Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by the Depository with respect to its members, participants and any beneficial owners.
 
(ii)  The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any
 
 
A-8
 
transfers between or among Depository participants, members or beneficial owners in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
2.3  
Definitive Securities
 
(a)  A Global Security deposited with the Depository or with the Trustee as Securities Custodian pursuant to Section 2.1 shall be transferred to the beneficial owners thereof in the form of Definitive Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Security, in exchange for such Global Security, only if such transfer complies with Section 2.3 and (i) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as a depository for such Global Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice, or (ii) a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or (iii) the Company, in its sole discretion, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Securities under this Indenture.
 
(b)  Any Global Security that is transferable to the beneficial owners thereof pursuant to this Section 2.4 shall be surrendered by the Depository to the Trustee, to be so transferred, in whole or from time to time in part, without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, upon such transfer of each portion of such Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Definitive Securities of authorized denominations.  Definitive Securities issued in exchange for any portion of a Global Security transferred pursuant to this Section shall be executed, authenticated and delivered only in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 and registered in such names as the Depository shall direct.  Any Definitive Security delivered in exchange for an interest in the Global Security shall, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.3(c), bear the restricted securities legend set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto.
 
(c)  The registered Holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
 
(d)  In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 2.4(a)(i), (ii) or (iii), the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Definitive Securities in definitive, fully registered form without interest coupons.
 
 
A-9
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (DTC), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO DTC OR NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSORS NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
 
 
THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), IS NOT ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION OR ANY WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) IN THE UNITED STATES, SO LONG AS THE NEW NOTES
 
 
 
 
REMAIN ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHO IT  REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ONE OR MORE OTHER QIBS  IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT SUCH RESALE, PLEDGE OR TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH SHALL NOT APPLY FOLLOWING THE EXPIRATION OF FORTY DAYS FROM THE LATER OF (i) THE DATE ON WHICH THIS SECURITY WAS FIRST OFFERED AND (ii) THE DATE OF ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY (THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD). UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS SECURITY MAY ONLY BE SOLD, PLEDGED OR TRANSFERRED THROUGH EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.A., AS OPERATOR OR THE EUROCLEAR SYSTEM, OR CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIT ANONYME. THE FOREGOING LEGEND SHALL NOT APPLY FOLLOWING THE EXPIRATION OF SUCH 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD.
 
 
PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUSIP No. ________
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, promises to pay to [Cede & Co.]**, or registered assigns, the principal sum [of [    ] Dollars]* [as set forth on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases annexed hereto]** on October 1, 2041.
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1, commencing on April 1, 2012.
 
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15.
 
________________________
 
*  Insert for Definitive Securities.
 
** Insert for Global Securities.  If the Security is to be issued in global form, add the Global Securities Legend from Exhibit 1 to Appendix A and the attachment from such Exhibit 1 captioned TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL SECURITIES - SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL SECURITY.
 
 
 
 
 
Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF
       AUTHENTICATION
 
Dated:
 
U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
 
as Trustee, certifies
that this is one of
the Securities referred
to in the Indenture.
 
By:_________________________
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
Interest
 
(a)  NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the Company), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at the rate per annum shown above.  The Company will pay interest semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2012.  Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from September 14, 2011.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any interest payment date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity is not a Business Day, the payment required to be made on that day will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on such date, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable from and after such interest payment date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be.  The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate per annum borne by the Securities, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by the Securities to the extent lawful.
 
(b)  .  The holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 14, 2011, among the Company and the Dealer Managers named therein (the Registration Rights Agreement).  Capitalized terms used in this paragraph (b) but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.  In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the date which is 180 days following the Final Closing Date, (ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective within 270 days after the Final Closing Date, (iii) if the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective, the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to 300 days after the Final Closing Date, (iv) if the Company is required to file the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company does not so file the Shelf Registration Statement on or prior to the 45th day after the Companys obligation to file such Shelf Registration Statement arises, (v) if the Company is required to file the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the SEC and has not otherwise become effective under the Securities Act on or prior to 90 days after the filing obligation arises, or (vi) the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as applicable, is declared or becomes effective but thereafter ceases to be effective or usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (vi), a Registration Default), the Company shall be obligated to pay Additional Interest from and including the date on which the first such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured, at a rate of 0.25% per annum on the applicable principal amount of Securities held by such Holder for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of a Registration Default, and such rate will increase by an
Additional Interest
 
 
 
 
additional 0.25% with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate may in no event exceed 0.50% per annum.
provided
 
2.  
Method of Payment
 
The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on the March 15 or September 15 next preceding the interest payment date even if Securities are canceled after the record date and on or before the interest payment date.  Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments.  The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.  Payments in respect of the Securities represented by a Global Security (including principal and interest) will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depository.  The Company will make all payments in respect of a Definitive Security (including principal and interest), by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof; , , that payments on the Securities may also be made, in the case of a Holder of at least $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Securities, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 30 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion).
provided
however
 
3.  
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
Initially, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association (the Trustee), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice.  The Company or any of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries incorporated or formed in the United States may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
4.  
Indenture
 
The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Indenture), between the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture (the TIA).  Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined in the Securities have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.  The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
U.S.C.
 
The Securities are unsubordinated, unsecured obligations of the Company.  This Security is one of the Initial Securities referred to in the Indenture.  Under the Indenture, Securities include the Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.  The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture.  The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to, among other things, create or incur Liens or Funded Debt. The Indenture also
 
 
2
 
imposes limitations on the ability of the Company to consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, transfer, assign, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the property of the Company.
 
5.  
Optional Redemption
 
The Securities will be redeemable in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus in each case accrued interest thereon to, but not including, the date of redemption.
 
Notwithstanding the above, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on an interest payment date falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on such interest payment date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant record date.
 
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
 
Independent Investment Banker means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. New York time on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and one other broker-dealer appointed by the Company; or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers in the United States of America (each a Primary Treasury Dealer), and their respective successors;
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
 
 
3
 
provided, however, that if any of the foregoing or their respective affiliates shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
6.  
Sinking Fund
 
The Securities are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
7.  
Notice of Redemption
 
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first-class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at his or her registered address.  Securities in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000.  If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the redemption date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or before the redemption date and certain other conditions are satisfied, on and after such date interest ceases to accrue on such Securities (or such portions thereof) called for redemption.
 
8.  
Repurchase of Securities at the Option of Holders upon Change of Control
 
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as described above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of the Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price (the Repurchase Price) in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to, but not including, the Repurchase Date (as defined below). A Change of Control Repurchase Event means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event with respect to the Securities, each of which is defined in the Indenture. Within 30 days following a Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to a Change of Control, but after the public announcement of a Change of Control, the Company will mail, or cause to be mailed, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the payment date specified in the notice (such offer the Repurchase Offer and such date the Repurchase Date), which Repurchase Date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Repurchase Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the Repurchase Date.
 
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be
 
 
4
 
deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities by virtue of such conflict.
 
On the Repurchase Date following a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(1)           accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Repurchase Offer;
 
(2)           deposit with the Trustee or with such Paying Agent as the Trustee may designate an amount equal to the aggregate Repurchase Price for all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
 
(3)           deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being repurchased by the Company pursuant to the Repurchase Offer and that all conditions precedent to the repurchase by the Company of Securities pursuant to the Repurchase Offer have been complied with.
 
The Trustee will promptly mail, or cause the Paying Agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Securities, or portions of Securities, properly tendered the Repurchase Price for such Securities, or portions of Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered, as applicable; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
The Company will not be required to make a Repurchase Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company may not have sufficient funds to repurchase all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
9.  
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
 
The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000.  A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture.  Upon any transfer or exchange, the Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or to transfer or exchange any Securities for a period of 15 days prior to the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed or 15 days before an interest payment date.
 
 
5
 
10.  
Persons Deemed Owners
 
The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
 
11.  
Unclaimed Money
 
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its written request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person.  After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
 
12.  
Discharge
 
Subject to certain conditions, the Company at any time may terminate its obligations under the Securities and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal and interest on the Securities to redemption or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
 
13.  
Amendment, Waiver
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities affected, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Security; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of any Security, or the time for interest payments on any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof or the rate of interest thereon, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the due date thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (ii) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or to any waiver of compliance with certain provisions or certain defaults thereunder and their consequences provided for in the Indenture; or (iii) modify any of the provisions of the Indenture relating to supplemental indentures that require consent of Holders, the waiver of past defaults or the waiver of certain covenants, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Indenture cannot be modified or waived, without the consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Security, provided, however, that the consent of the Holders shall not be required with respect to changes in the references to the Trustee in Sections 9.02 and 4.09 of the Indenture or with respect to the deletion of this proviso from the Indenture, in accordance with Sections 7.08 and 9.01(b) of the Indenture.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Securities, to waive any past Default under the Indenture with respect to the Securities, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Security or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Indenture which cannot be modified or amended
 
 
6
 
without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected.  Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange therefor or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
14.  
Defaults and Remedies
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding affected thereby, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Securities to be immediately due and payable.  Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default and shall result in the Securities being immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of such Events of Default without any further act of the Trustee or any Holder.
 
Holders of Securities may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind any declaration of acceleration and its consequences if all existing Events of Default, except nonpayment of principal that has become due solely because of the acceleration, have been cured or waived and the Company has complied with Section 6.02(b)(1) of the Indenture.
 
15.  
Trustee Dealings with the Company
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA,  the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
16.  
No Recourse Against Others
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
17.  
Successors
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, when a successor assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the predecessor will be released from those obligations.
 
 
7
 
18.  
Authentication
 
This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an authenticating agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
19.  
Abbreviations
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
20.  
Governing Law
 
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
 
21.  
CUSIP Numbers
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Securities and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security.
 
 
 
8
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
 
 
(Insert assignees soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
 
and irrevocably appoint                          as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security.
 
In connection with any transfer of any of the Securities evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d)(1)(i) under the Securities Act after the later of the date of original issuance of such Securities and the last date, if any, on which such Securities were owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, the undersigned confirms that such Securities are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
 
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that it is acquiring this Security for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigneds foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial principal amount of this Global Security is $[  ].  The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.12 (Change of Control) of the Indenture, check the box:
 
/    /
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.12 of the Indenture, state the amount:
 
$
 
Date: __________________       Your Signature: ______________________
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of the Security)
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
CUSIP No. ________
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, promises to pay to [Cede & Co.], or registered assigns, the principal sum [of [  ] Dollars] [as set forth on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases annexed hereto] on October 1, 2041.
**
*
**
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1, commencing on April 1, 2012.
 
Record Dates:  March 15 and September 15.
 
______________________
Insert for Global Securities.  If the Security is to be issued in global form, add the Global Securities Legend from Exhibit 1 to Appendix A and the attachment from such Exhibit 1 captioned TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL SECURITIES - SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL SECURITY.
**
 
Insert for Definitive Securities.
*
 
 
 
 
 
Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
Dated:
U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Trustee, certifies
that this is one of
the Securities referred
to in the Indenture.
By:  ________________________
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
1.  
Interest
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the Company), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at the rate per annum shown above.  The Company will pay interest semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2012.  Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from September 14, 2011.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any interest payment date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity is not a Business Day, the payment required to be made on that day will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on such date, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable from and after such interest payment date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate per annum borne by the Securities, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by the Securities to the extent lawful.
 
2.  
Method of Payment
 
The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on the March 15 or September 15 next preceding the interest payment date even if Securities are canceled after the record date and on or before the interest payment date.  Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments.  The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.  Payments in respect of the Securities represented by a Global Security (including principal and interest) will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depository.  The Company will make all payments in respect of a Definitive Security (including principal and interest), by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof; , , that payments on the Securities may also be made, in the case of a Holder of at least $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Securities, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 30 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion).
provided
however
 
3.  
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
Initially, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association (the Trustee), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice.  The Company or any of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries incorporated or formed in the United States may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
 
 
 
4.  
Indenture
 
The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Indenture), between the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture (the TIA).  Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined in the Securities have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.  The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
U.S.C.
 
The Securities are unsubordinated, unsecured obligations of the Company.  This Security is one of the Exchange Securities referred to in the Indenture.  Under the Indenture, Securities include the Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.  The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities are treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture.  The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to, among other things, create or incur Liens or Funded Debt.  The Indenture also imposes limitations on the ability of the Company to consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, transfer, assign, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the property of the Company.
 
5.  
Optional Redemption
 
The Securities will be redeemable in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus in each case accrued interest thereon to, but not including, the date of redemption.
 
Notwithstanding the above, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on an interest payment date falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on such interest payment date to the Holders thereof as of the close of business on the relevant record date.
 
Treasury Rate means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment  Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
 
 
2
 
Independent Investment Banker means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date,  the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations  means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m. New York time on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer means each of and one other broker-dealer appointed by the Company or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers in the United States of America (each a Primary Treasury Dealer),  and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing or their respective affiliates shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
 
6.  
Sinking Fund
 
The Securities are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
7.  
Notice of Redemption
 
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first-class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at his or her registered address.  Securities in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000.  If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the redemption date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or before the redemption date and certain other conditions are satisfied, on and after such date interest ceases to accrue on such Securities (or such portions thereof) called for redemption.
 
8.  
Repurchase of Securities at the Option of Holders upon Change of Control
 
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as described above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of the Securities to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holders Securities at a repurchase price (the Repurchase Price) in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to, but not including, the Repurchase Date (as defined below). A Change of Control Repurchase Event means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event with respect to the Securities, each of which is defined in the Indenture. Within 30 days following a Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to a Change of Control, but after the public announcement of a Change of Control, the Company will mail, or cause to be
 
 
3
 
mailed, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the payment date specified in the notice (such offer the Repurchase Offer and such date the Repurchase Date), which Repurchase Date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Repurchase Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the Repurchase Date.
 
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Securities by virtue of such conflict.
 
On the Repurchase Date following a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
(1)           accept for payment all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Repurchase Offer;
 
(2)           deposit with the Trustee or with such Paying Agent as the Trustee may designate an amount equal to the aggregate Repurchase Price for all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
 
(3)           deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted, together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities being repurchased by the Company pursuant to the Repurchase Offer and that all conditions precedent to the repurchase by the Company of Securities pursuant to the Repurchase Offer have been complied with.
 
The Trustee will promptly mail, or cause the Paying Agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Securities, or portions of Securities, properly tendered the Repurchase Price for such Securities, or portions of Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered, as applicable; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
The Company will not be required to make a Repurchase Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
 
4
 
The Company may not have sufficient funds to repurchase all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
9.  
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
 
The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000.  A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture.  Upon any transfer or exchange, the Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or to transfer or exchange any Securities for a period of 15 days prior to the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed or 15 days before an interest payment date.
 
10.  
Persons Deemed Owners
 
The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
 
11.  
Unclaimed Money
 
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its written request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person.  After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
 
12.  
Discharge
 
Subject to certain conditions, the Company at any time may terminate its obligations under the Securities and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal and interest on the Securities to redemption or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
 
13.  
Amendment, Waiver
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities affected, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Security; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of any Security, or the time for interest payments on any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof or the rate of interest thereon, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the due date thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (ii) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such
 
 
5
 
supplemental indenture or to any waiver of compliance with certain provisions or certain defaults thereunder and their consequences provided for in the Indenture; or (iii) modify any of the provisions of the Indenture relating to supplemental indentures that require consent of Holders, the waiver of past defaults or the waiver of certain covenants, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Indenture cannot be modified or waived, without the consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, provided, however, that the consent of the Holders shall not be required with respect to changes in the references to the Trustee in Sections 9.02 and 4.09 of the Indenture or with respect to the deletion of this proviso from the Indenture, in accordance with Sections 7.08 and 9.01(b) of the Indenture.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Securities, to waive any past Default under the Indenture with respect to the Securities, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Security or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Indenture which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected.  Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange therefor or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
14.  
Defaults and Remedies
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding affected thereby, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Securities to be immediately due and payable.  Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default and shall result in the Securities being immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of such Events of Default without any further act of the Trustee or any Holder.
 
Holders of Securities may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind any declaration of acceleration and its consequences if all existing Events of Default, except nonpayment of principal that has become due solely because of the acceleration, have been cured or waived and the Company has complied with Section 6.02(b)(1) of the Indenture.
 
15.  
Trustee Dealings with the Company
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA,  the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates
 
 
6
 
and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
16.  
No Recourse Against Others
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
17.  
Successors
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, when a successor assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the predecessor will be released from those obligations.
 
18.  
Authentication
 
This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an authenticating agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
19.  
Abbreviations
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
20.  
Governing Law
 
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
 
21.  
CUSIP Numbers
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Securities and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security.
 
 
7
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
 
 
(Insert assignees soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
 
and irrevocably appoint                           as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security.  Signature must be guaranteed by a participant in a recognized signature guaranty medallion program or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee.
 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.12 (Change of Control) of the Indenture, check the box:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.12 of the Indenture, state the amount:
 
$
 
Date: __________________       Your Signature: ______________________
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of the Security)
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention:  Corporate Trust Services
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Indenture), between Norfolk Southern Corporation, as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of Securities which are evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Security (CUSIP No. 655844 BE7) and held with the Depository by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Securities to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Securities evidenced by a Regulation S Global Security, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depository.
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Securities, the Transferor does hereby certify that such transfer has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 (as applicable) under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and accordingly the Transferor does hereby further certify that:
 
(1)           the offer of the Securities was not made to a Person in the United States;
 
(2)           either:
 
(A)           at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or the Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States, or
 
 
 
 
(B)           the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
 
(3)           no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable;
 
(4)           the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
 
(5)           upon completion of the transaction, the beneficial interest being transferred as described above is to be held with the Depository through Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. or Clearstream Banking, or both.
societe anonyme
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.  Terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:       Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT C
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention:  Corporate Trust Services
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Indenture), between Norfolk Southern Corporation, as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of Securities which are evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Security (CUSIP No. U65584 AB7) and held with the Depository by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Securities to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Securities evidenced by a Regulation S Global Security, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depository.
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Securities, the Transferor does hereby certify that such transfer has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with either (i) Rule 903 or Rule 904 (as applicable) under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or (ii) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, and accordingly the Transferor does hereby further certify that:
 
(1)           if the transfer has been effected pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904:
 
(A)           the offer of the Securities was not made to a Person in the United States;
 
(B)           either:
 
 
 
 
(i)           at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or the Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States, or
 
(ii)           the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
 
(C)           no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
 
(D)           the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; or
 
(2)           if the transfer has been effected pursuant to Rule 144, the Securities have been transferred in a transaction permitted by Rule 144.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.  Terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:       Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention:  Corporate Trust Services
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Indenture), between Norfolk Southern Corporation, as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of Dollar Notes which are evidenced by one or more Regulation S Global Dollar Notes and held with the Depository through [Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V.]  [Clearstream Banking, ] by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Securities to a Person that will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Securities evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Security, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depository.
societe anonyme
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Securities, the Transferor does hereby certify that
 
(1)           such transfer is being effected in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction;
 
(2)           the Securities are being transferred in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) to a transferee that the transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the Securities for its own account or an account with respect to which the transferee exercises sole investment discretion and the transferee and any such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A, in each case in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A under the Securities Act; and
 
 
 
 
(3)           it has notified the transferee that it has relied on Rule 144A as a basis for the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act used in connection with the transfer.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:       Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
 
2
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
 
dated as of September 14, 2011 (the Third Supplemental Indenture), by and between Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation, as issuer (the Company), and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee (the Trustee).
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
, the Company executed and delivered the indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, to the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture (as defined below) and as hereby further supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture), to provide for the issuance of the Companys debt securities to be issued in one or more series;
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture, the execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee (the Second Supplemental Indenture) established and authorized the issuance of the Companys 6% Senior Notes due 2111, a new series of debt securities initially limited to an aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000 (the 2111 Series);
WHEREAS
 
, on May 23, 2011 the Company issued $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of debt securities of the 2111 Series (the Prior Notes);
WHEREAS
 
, Sections 2.01 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture provide that a supplemental indenture may be entered into without the consent of the holders of any debt securities issued by the Company pursuant to the Base Indenture (the Securities) by the Company and the Trustee for the purpose of issuing additional Securities of a series previously authorized;
WHEREAS
 
, Section 2.01 of the Second Supplemental Indenture contemplates the reopening of the 2111 Series;
WHEREAS
 
, the Company desires to reopen the 2111 Series and has requested the Trustee to join it in the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture in connection with the issuance by the Company of an additional $4,492,000 principal amount of Securities of the 2111 Series (the Additional Notes, and, together with the Prior Notes, the Notes), the form and substance of such Additional Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof being identical, except to the extent set forth herein, to the form, substance, terms, provisions and conditions of the Prior Notes, as provided in the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, and the Additional Notes shall be deemed to be part of the 2111 Series;
WHEREAS
 
,the Company desires to amend the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.01(1) of the Base Indenture, which provides that the Company may amend the Base Indenture or the Securities of any series, without notice to or consent of the holders of any Securities, to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;
WHEREAS
 
 
 
1
 
 
, the issuance of the Additional Notes has been authorized by a Board Resolution and the Board of Directors has authorized the proper officers of the Company to execute and deliver any and all appropriate documents necessary or appropriate to effect such issuance, including without limitation, this Third Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS
 
, all things necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the Trustee, in accordance with its terms, and to make Additional Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the premises and the acceptance of the Additional Notes by the Holders thereof and other valuable consideration receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company, and for the purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Base Indenture, the form and substance of the Additional Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof, the Company covenants and agrees, with the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of the Additional Notes, as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used but not defined herein or in the recitals above have the respective meanings set forth in the Base Indenture. The following additional terms are hereby established for purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture and shall have the meaning set forth in this Third Supplemental Indenture only for purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 1.01.  
Definitions
 
 has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
Additional Notes
 
 means the 40-day distribution compliance period (within the meaning of Rule 902(f) of Regulation S), with respect to the Regulation S Global Notes.
Distribution Compliance Period
 
 means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
 
  means the Rule 144A Global Notes and Regulation S Global Notes collectively.
Global Notes
 
 means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, each May 23 and November 23 of each year, commencing November 23, 2011.
Interest Payment Date
 
 has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
Notes
 
 means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
 
 means one or more global certificates in definitive, fully registered form without interest coupons, representing Additional Notes initially issued in reliance on Regulation S, and with the global notes legend and restricted notes legend set forth in hereto, which global certificates shall be deposited on behalf of the holders of the Additional Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for DTC, and registered in the name of DTC or a nominee of DTC.
Regulation S Global Notes
Exhibit A
 
 means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
 
 means one or more global certificates in definitive, fully registered form without interest coupons, representing Additional Notes initially issued to Qualified Institutional Buyers (as defined in Rule 144A), and with the global notes legend and restricted notes legend set forth in hereto, which global certificates shall be deposited on behalf of the holders of the Additional Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, as custodian for DTC, and registered in the name of DTC or a nominee of DTC.
Rule 144A Global Notes
Exhibit A
 
The words herein, hereof, and hereunder and other words of similar import refer to this Third Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section
 
 
3
 
or other subdivision. The rules of construction set forth in Section 1.04 of the Base Indenture shall apply to this Third Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
 
. The issuance of the Additional Notes is hereby authorized, and such Additional Notes shall be registered in the names of such Persons as shall be set forth in any written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Additional Notes pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Base Indenture. The Additional Notes and the Prior Notes shall constitute a single series of Securities under the Base Indenture; accordingly, the authorized aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the 2111 Series is hereby limited to $404,492,000 (unless the 2111 Series is further reopened pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture to authorize the issuance of additional Securities of the 2111 Series), and the terms and provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture are hereby incorporated by reference into this Third Supplemental Indenture and shall apply equally to the Additional Notes and the Prior Notes, other than the issue date of the Additional Notes. In addition, the transfer restrictions set forth in Section 2.04 hereof shall initially apply to the Additional Notes.
SECTION 2.01.  
Designation and Authorization
 
. The Additional Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Notes in substantially the form set forth in hereto.
SECTION 2.02.  
Form of the Additional Notes
Exhibit A
 
. The Company shall issue the Additional Notes in minimum denominations of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
SECTION 2.03.  
Denomination of the Additional Notes
 
. For purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture only, where Additional Notes (other than Global Notes except as set forth in the Base Indenture) are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or exchange of such Additional Notes, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested; , , that if such Additional Notes bear a restricted notes legend, the Registrar shall only register such transfer or make such exchange if such Additional Notes are being transferred or exchanged pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) below, and are accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
SECTION 2.04.  
Transfer and Exchange
provided
however
 
if such Additional Notes are being delivered to the Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect; or
(1)
 
if such Additional Notes are being transferred to the Company or any of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries (except in connection with a Registered
(2)
 
 
4
 
Exchange Offer (as defined below)), a certification to that effect (in the form set forth on the reverse of the Additional Note); or
 
if such Additional Notes are being transferred inside the United States to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A) acquiring for its own account or for the account of one or more qualified institutional buyers to whom notice is given that such transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, a certification by each of the transferor and the transferee in the form set forth on the reverse of the Additional Note; or
(3)
 
if such Additional Notes are being transferred outside the United States in an offshore transaction within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect (in the form set forth on the reverse of the Additional Note); or
(4)
 
if such Additional Notes are being transferred pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or in reliance upon another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, (i) a certification to that effect (in the form set forth on the reverse of the Additional Note) and (ii) if the Company so requests, as provided in the form set forth on the reverse of the Additional Note, an opinion of counsel or other evidence reasonably satisfactory to it as to the compliance with the restrictions set forth in the restricted notes legend set forth in hereto.
(5)
Exhibit A
 
With respect to transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests in Global Notes:
 
The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the following provisions and the procedures of the Depositary therefor.  A transferor of a beneficial interest in Global Notes shall deliver a written order given in accordance with the Depositarys procedures containing information regarding the participant account at the Depositary to be credited with a beneficial interest in a Global Note, and such account shall be credited in accordance with such instructions with a beneficial interest in the applicable Global Note, and the participant account related to the Person making the transfer shall be debited by an amount equal to the beneficial interest in the Global Note being transferred.
(a)
 
If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in one Global Note to a beneficial interest in another Global Note, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the Global Note to which such interest is being transferred in an amount equal to the principal amount of the interest to be so transferred, and the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a corresponding decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note from which such interest is being transferred.
(b)
 
If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in a Rule 144A Global Note to a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Note, the transferor of such beneficial interest shall deliver to the Registrar (1) a certificate substantially in the form
(c)
 
 
5
 
of hereto if such transfer occurs prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period and (2) a certificate substantially in the form of hereto if such transfer occurs after the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period.
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
 
In the event that a Global Note is exchanged for definitive Additional Notes that bear a restricted notes legend, such Additional Notes may be exchanged only in accordance with such procedures as are substantially consistent with the provisions of this Section 2.04 (including the certification requirements set forth on the reverse of the Additional Notes intended to ensure that such transfers comply with Rule 144A, Regulation S or such other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act, as the case may be) and such other procedures as may from time to time be adopted by the Company.
(d)
 
If the proposed transfer is a transfer of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Note to a beneficial interest in a Rule 144A Global Note and such transfer occurs prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the transferor of such beneficial interest shall deliver to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of hereto.
(e)
Exhibit D
 
DTC, as Holder of the Global Notes, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action that a Holder is entitled to give or take under the Base Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture.
 
. Except as permitted by this Section 2.05, each certificate evidencing Additional Notes shall bear a legend substantially in the form of the restricted notes legend set forth in hereto. After a transfer of any Additional Notes during the period of the effectiveness of a shelf registration statement with respect to such Additional Notes, all requirements pertaining to restricted notes legends on such Additional Notes will cease to apply, and an Additional Note in global form without restricted notes legends will be available to the transferee of the beneficial interests of such Additional Notes. Upon the consummation of an offer by the Company pursuant to a registration statement to exchange the Additional Notes (a Registered Exchange Offer) for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of the 2111 Series which are not subject to restrictions on transfer and restricted notes legends, Additional Notes without the restricted notes legends will be available to Holders or beneficial owners that exchange such Additional Notes (or beneficial interests therein) in such Registered Exchange Offer.  Upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances described in this paragraph, the Company will deliver an Officers Certificate to the Trustee instructing the Trustee to issue Additional Notes without restricted notes legends.
SECTION 2.05.  
Legend
Exhibit A
 
 
 
6
 
 
. The following Sections of the Base Indenture are hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 3.01.  
Amendment to Base Indenture
 
Section 6.02(a) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended as follows.
(a)
 
the words at the time Outstanding appearing in such Section are deleted and replaced with the words of any series.
(1)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following (A) the phrase Outstanding Securities appearing in such Section, (B) the first and third references to Securities appearing in the first parenthetical of such Section and (C) the word Securities first following the first parenthetical in such Section.
(2)
 
Section 6.02(b) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended as follows.
(b)
 
the words of any series are added immediately following the word Securities first appearing in such section.
(1)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the phrase Outstanding Securities appearing in such section prior to clause (1).
(2)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities in each instance in which such word appears in clauses (1)(A), (1)(B) and 1(C) of such Section and the word such appearing in clause 1(C) of such Section is replaced with the.
(3)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities in each instance in which such word appears in clause (2) of such section and the word the is added immediately prior to the word Securities last appearing in clause (2) of such section.
(4)
 
the words with respect to the Securities of such series are added immediately following the phrase Event of Default appearing in the last sentence of such Section.
(5)
 
Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended as follows:
(c)
 
the words Securities then appearing in such section are deleted and the words Securities of any series are added immediately following the word Outstanding appearing in such Section.
(1)
 
the words with respect to the Securities of such series are added immediately following the word Default first appearing in such Section.
(2)
 
the words of such series are added at the end of clause (ii) appearing in such section immediately following the word Securities.
(3)
 
Section 6.05 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended as follows:
(d)
 
 
7
 
 
the words of any series are added immediately following the word Securities first appearing in such section.
(1)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities last appearing in such section.
(2)
 
Section 6.06 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended as follows:
(e)
 
the words of any series are added immediately following the word Security first appearing in clause (a) of such section and the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities first appearing in clause (a) of such section.
(1)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities appearing in clause (a)(2) of such section.
(2)
 
the words of such series are added immediately following the word Securities appearing in clause (a)(3) of such section.
(3)
 
The amendments to the Base Indenture provided for in this Section 3.01 shall apply to all series of Securities heretofore or hereafter established under the Base Indenture.
(f)
 
 
 
. Article III of the Second Supplemental Indenture is hereby amended to add the following provision as a new Section 3.06:
SECTION 4.01.  
Amendment to Second Supplemental Indenture
 
. If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, redemption date or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Legal Holidays
 
 
 
.Other than in the case of Article III (which shall apply with respect to each series of Securities heretofore or hereafter established under the Base Indenture) and Article IV (which shall apply with respect to the Securities of the 2111 Series (including the Notes)), or as otherwise expressly provided
SECTION 5.01.  
Application of Third Supplemental Indenture
 
 
8
 
herein, each and every term and condition contained in this Third Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture shall apply only to the Additional Notes established hereby and not to any other series of Securities established under the Base Indenture. Except as specifically amended and supplemented by, or to the extent inconsistent with, this Third Supplemental Indenture, each of the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
. The Third Supplemental Indenture shall be effective upon the execution and delivery hereof of each of the parties hereto.
SECTION 5.02.  
Effective Date of Third Supplemental Indenture
 
. This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this Third Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original of the Third Supplemental Indenture for all purposes.  Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
SECTION 5.03.  
Counterparts
 
. The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Third Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 5.04.  
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
 
. This Third Supplemental Indenture and the Additional Notes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York but without giving effect to applicable principles of conflicts of law.
SECTION 5.05.  
Governing Law
 
The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee.  The parties to this Third Supplemental Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
SECTION 5.06.  
U.S.A. Patriot Act.
 
 
9
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 2.02 OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY NAMED BELOW OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY.  THIS NOTE IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
 
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (DTC), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT, OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), IS NOT ACQUIRING THIS NOTE FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS NOTE IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND
 
 
 
 
ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION OR ANY WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) IN THE UNITED STATES, SO LONG AS THE NEW NOTES REMAIN ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHO IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ONE OR MORE OTHER QIBS  IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT SUCH RESALE, PLEDGE OR TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPH SHALL NOT APPLY FOLLOWING THE EXPIRATION OF FORTY DAYS FROM THE LATER OF (i) THE DATE ON WHICH THIS NOTE WAS FIRST OFFERED AND (ii) THE DATE OF ISSUANCE OF THIS NOTE (THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD). UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF THE 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS NOTE MAY ONLY BE SOLD, PLEDGED OR TRANSFERRED THROUGH EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.A., AS OPERATOR OR THE EUROCLEAR SYSTEM, OR CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIT ANONYME. THE FOREGOING LEGEND SHALL NOT APPLY FOLLOWING THE EXPIRATION OF SUCH 40 DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD.
 
 
PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUSIP No. ___________
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum [of $_______________ ] [as set forth on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases annexed hereto] on May 23, 2111.
______________________
 
Interest Payment Dates: May 23 and November 23, commencing on November 23, 2011.
 
Record Dates: May 9 and November 9.
 
 
 
 
Additional provisions of this Global Note are set forth on the other side of this Global Note.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF
       AUTHENTICATION
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the Company), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum shown above.  The Company will pay interest semiannually on May 23 and November 23 of each year, commencing November 23, 2011.  Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from May 23, 2011.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate per annum borne by the Notes, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by the Notes to the extent lawful.
 
 
The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on the May 9 or November 9 next preceding the interest payment date even if Notes are canceled after the record date and on or before the interest payment date.  Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments.  The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.  Payments in respect of the Notes represented by a Global Note (including principal and interest) will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depositary.  The Company will make all payments in respect of a Definitive Note (including principal and interest), by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof; , , that payments on the Notes may also be made, in the case of a Holder of at least $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 30 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion).
provided
however
 
 
Initially, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association (the Trustee), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice.  The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
 
 
The Company issued the Notes under a Base Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2011 and as further
 
 
 
 
supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2011 (together the Indenture), between the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture (the TIA).  Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined in the Notes have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
U.S.C.
 
The Notes are unsubordinated, unsecured obligations of the Company.  This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Indenture.  The Notes include the Prior Notes, the Additional Notes and an unlimited aggregate principal amount of additional Securities of the 2111 Series that may be issued under the Indenture.  The Prior Notes and the Additional Notes are, and any such additional Securities will be, treated as a single class of Securities under the Indenture.  The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to, among other things, create or incur Liens, to consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, transfer, assign, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the property of the Company.
 
 
The Notes will be redeemable as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Company, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Yield plus 30 basis points, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
 
Treasury Yield means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Yield will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield-to-maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price of such redemption date. The Treasury Yield will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date.
 
Comparable Treasury Issue means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity most comparable to the remaining
 
 
2
 
term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a maturity comparable to the remaining term of such Notes.
 
Independent Investment Banker means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing in the United States appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
 
Comparable Treasury Price means, with respect to any redemption date, (A) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
 Reference Treasury Dealer means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and its successors; provided, however, that if the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York, New York (a Primary Treasury Dealer) or otherwise fails to provide a Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation means a quotation for a Comparable Treasury Issue provided by a Reference Treasury Dealer.
 
 
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
 
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first-class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at his or her registered address.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000.  If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest on all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the redemption date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or before the redemption date and certain other conditions are satisfied, on and after such date interest ceases to accrue on such Notes (or such portions thereof) called for redemption.
 
 
The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture.  Upon any transfer or exchange, the Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or to
 
 
3
 
transfer or exchange any Notes for a period of 15 days prior to the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes to be redeemed or 15 days before an Interest Payment Date.
 
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
 
 
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its written request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person.  After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
 
 
Subject to certain conditions, the Company at any time may terminate its obligations under the Notes and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal and interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, as the case may be.
 
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes affected, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Note; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) reduce the amount of Notes of such series whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; or (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on any Notes of such series; or (iii) reduce the principal of or extend the fixed maturity of any Notes of such series; (iv) reduce the portion of the principal amount of an OID Note of such series payable upon acceleration of its maturity; or (v) make any Note of such series payable in money other than that stated in such Note.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes affected thereby, on behalf of all of the Holders of the Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes of such series affected, provided that such waiver shall not affect the above provisions (i)  (v).
 
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Notes to be immediately due and payable.  Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default and shall result in the Notes being immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of such Events of Default without any further act of the Trustee or any Holder.
 
 
4
 
Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind any declaration of acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree, and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of principal, premium or interest that has become due solely because of the acceleration.
 
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Note, each Noteholder waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, when a successor assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the predecessor will be released from those obligations.
 
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an authenticating agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Noteholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
 
5
 
 
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
 
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note.
 
 
6
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
 
(Insert assignees soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
 
and irrevocably appoint                          as agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
____________________________________________________________
 
Date: ________________ Your Signature: _____________________
 
____________________________________________________________
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
 
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d)(1)(i) under the Securities Act after the later of the date of original issuance of such Notes and the last date, if any, on which such Notes were owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, the undersigned confirms that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
 
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , , that if box  (5) is checked, the Trustee may require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Company may reasonably request to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
provided
however
 
Signature Guarantee:
 
 
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that it is acquiring this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigneds foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
 
 
2
 
 
 
The initial principal amount of this Global Note is $______________.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention:  Global Corporate Trust
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2011, and as further supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 14, 2011 (together, the Indenture), in each case between Norfolk Southern Corporation (the Company), as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of the Companys 6% Senior Notes due 2111 (the Notes) which are evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Note (CUSIP No. 655844 BF4) and held with the Depositary by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Notes to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Notes evidenced by a Regulation S Global Note, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depositary.
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Notes, the Transferor does hereby certify that such transfer has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 (as applicable) under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and accordingly the Transferor does hereby further certify that:
 
(1)       the offer of the Notes was not made to a Person in the United States;
 
(2)       either:
 
(A)           at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or the Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States, or
 
 
 
 
(B)           the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
 (3)        no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable;
 
 (4)        the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
 
 (5)        upon completion of the transaction, the beneficial interest being transferred as described above is to be held with the Depositary through Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. or Clearstream Banking, or both.
societe anonyme
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.  Terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:       Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention:  Global Corporate Trust
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2011, and as further supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 14, 2011 (together, the Indenture), in each case between Norfolk Southern Corporation (the Company), as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of Companys 6% Senior Notes due 2111 (the Notes) which are evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Note (CUSIP No. 655844 BF4) and held with the Depositary by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Notes to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Notes evidenced by a Regulation S Global Note, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depositary.
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Notes, the Transferor does hereby certify that such transfer has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with either (i) Rule 903 or Rule 904 (as applicable) under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or (ii) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, and accordingly the Transferor does hereby further certify that:
 
(1)        if the transfer has been effected pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904:
 
(A)           the offer of the Notes was not made to a Person in the United States;
 
(B)           either:
 
 
 
 
    (i)           at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or the Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States, or
 
    (ii)           the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
 
(C)           no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
 
(D)           the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; or
 
(2)        if the transfer has been effected pursuant to Rule 144, the Notes have been transferred in a transaction permitted by Rule 144.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.  Terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:           Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
U.S. Bank Trust National Association,
 
     as Registrar
 
100 Wall Street, Suite 1600
New York, New York 10005
 
United States of America
Attention: Global Corporate Trust
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 23, 2011, and as further supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 14, 2011 (together, the Indenture), in each case between Norfolk Southern Corporation (the Company), as issuer, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
 
This letter relates to U.S.$____________ principal amount of the Companys 6% Senior Notes due 2111 (the Notes) which are evidenced by one or more Regulation S Global Dollar Notes (CUSIP No. U65584 AC5) and held with the Depositary through [Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V.]  [Clearstream Banking, ] by or on behalf of [insert name of transferor] as beneficial owner (the Transferor).  The Transferor has requested a transfer of such beneficial interest in the Notes to a Person that will take delivery thereof in the form of an equal principal amount of Notes evidenced by a Rule 144A Global Note, which amount, immediately after such transfer, is to be held with the Depositary.
societe anonyme
 
In connection with such request and in respect of such Notes, the Transferor does hereby certify that
 
(1)        such transfer is being effected in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction;
 
(2)        the Notes are being transferred in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) to a transferee that the transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the Notes for its own account or an account with respect to which the transferee exercises sole investment discretion and the transferee and any such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A, in each case in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A under the Securities Act; and
 
 
 
 
(3)        it has notified the transferee that it has relied on Rule 144A as a basis for the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act used in connection with the transfer.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Dated:  ______________
 
 
cc:           Norfolk Southern Corporation
 
 
2
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (the ) is made and entered into this 14  day of September, 2011, between Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the ), and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (J.P. Morgan) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (together with J.P. Morgan, the  and each, a ).
Agreement
th
Company
Dealer Managers
Dealer Manager
 
The Company and each of the Dealer Managers are parties to the Dealer Manager Agreement, dated August 26, 2011, between the Company and the Dealer Managers (the ) under which the Dealer Managers have agreed to act as dealer managers in respect of the Companys offers to exchange its outstanding 7.90% Notes due 2097 (the ), 7.05% Notes due 2037, 7.25% Notes due 2031 and 7.80% Notes due 2027 for a combination of  (1) a cash payment and (2) up to $600,000,000 combined aggregate principal amount of the Companys 4.837% Notes due 2041 (such notes, the ) or, in the alternative, in the case of the 2097 Notes only, the Companys 6% Senior Notes due 2111 (such notes, the  and together with the 2041 Notes, the ), as set forth in the Offering Memorandum dated August 26, 2011 related thereto.  In order to induce the Dealer Managers to enter into the Dealer Manager Agreement, the Company has agreed with the Dealer Managers for the benefit of the holders of the Securities and their direct and indirect transferees to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
Dealer Manager Agreement
2097 Notes
2041 Notes
2111 Notes
Securities
 
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
           
1.
Definitions
.
 
As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
1933 Act
 
 shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
 
 shall mean the indenture, dated as of the date hereof between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee, relating to the 2041 Notes, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
2041 Notes Indenture
 
 shall mean the indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009, between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of May 23, 2011 and as supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of the date hereof, relating to the 2111 Notes, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
2111 Notes Indenture
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Companys successors.
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Dealer Manager Agreement
 
 shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, provided, however, that such depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York.
Depositary
 
 shall mean the 4.837% Notes due 2041 to be issued by the Company under the 2041 Notes Indenture and the 6% Senior Notes due 2111 to be issued by the Company under the 2111 Notes Indenture, in each case having terms identical to the corresponding series of the Securities, in all material respects (except that the Exchange Notes shall not be subject to the provisions hereof, restrictions on transfers and restrictive legends applicable to the Securities), to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
Exchange Notes
 
 shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
 
 shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
Exchange Period
 
 shall mean September 14, 2011.
Final Closing Date
 
 shall mean holders or beneficial owners of Transfer Restricted Securities issued under the Indentures and each Participating Broker-Dealer that is a holder or beneficial owner of Exchange Notes for so long as such Participating Broker-Dealer is required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes.
Holder
 
 shall mean the 2041 Notes Indenture and the 2111 Notes Indenture; and  shall mean the 2041 Notes Indenture or the 2111 Notes Indenture, as the case may be.
Indentures
Indenture
 
 shall mean the Holders (as such term is defined in the applicable Indenture) of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities Outstanding (as defined, with respect to a Transfer Restricted Security, under the applicable Indenture); provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Transfer Restricted Securities is required hereunder, Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Company or any Affiliate (as such term is defined in the applicable Indenture) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage amount; and provided further that if the Companys obligation to file a Shelf Registration Statement arises only with respect to a particular series of Transfer Restricted Securities, shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities Outstanding of such series.
Majority Holders
 
 
2
 
 shall mean any of the Dealer Managers and any other broker-dealer that receives Exchange Notes for its own account in the Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities.
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
 shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
 shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
 
 shall mean the exchange offers by the Company of Exchange Notes for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof; and  shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of a series of the Exchange Notes for the corresponding series of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.
Registered Exchange Offers
Registered Exchange Offer
 
 shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority () registration and filing fees, including, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any qualified independent underwriter (and the reasonable fees and disbursements of its counsel) that is required to be retained by any holder of Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of FINRA (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities and any filings with FINRA), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Transfer Restricted Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or comfort letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, (viii) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Dealer Managers in connection with the Registered Exchange Offers, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Dealer Managers in connection therewith, (ix) the reasonable fees and disbursements of Sidley Austin , special counsel representing the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities (the ) and (x) any fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily required to be paid
Registration Expenses
FINRA
llp
Special Counsel
 
 
3
 
by issuers or sellers of securities and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Registration Statement, but excluding underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities by a Holder.
 
 shall mean any registration statement of the Company which covers any of the Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
 
 shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
 shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
Shelf Registration
 
 shall mean a shelf registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Agreement which covers all of the Transfer Restricted Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
 shall mean the Securities; provided, however, that Securities shall cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities on the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which such Securities have been exchanged by a Person other than a Participating Broker-Dealer for an Exchange Note in the Registered Exchange Offer, (ii) following the exchange by a Participating Broker-Dealer in the Registered Exchange Offer of a Security for an Exchange Note, the date on which such Exchange Note is sold to a purchaser who receives from such Participating Broker-Dealer on or prior to the date of such sale a copy of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, (iii) the date on which such Securities have been effectively registered under the 1933 Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement or (iv) the date on which such Securities are distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, in any case where a Participating Broker-Dealer receives an Exchange Note in the Registered Exchange Offers, such Exchange Note shall be considered a Transfer Restricted Security until such time as it ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security pursuant to clause (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the preceding sentence.
Transfer Restricted Securities
 
 shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the applicable Indenture.
Trustee
 
           
2.
Registration Under the 1933 Act
.
 
 
4
 
 
           
2.1
Registered Exchange Offers
. The Company shall, for the benefit of the Holders, at the Companys cost, (A) prepare and file with the SEC an Exchange Offer Registration Statement, within 180 days of the Final Closing Date, on an appropriate form under the 1933 Act with respect to offers for the issuance and delivery to the Holders, in exchange for the Transfer Restricted Securities, of a like principal amount of the corresponding series of Exchange Notes, (B) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act within 270 days of the Final Closing Date, (C) use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective until the closing of the Registered Exchange Offers and thereafter for so long as Participating Broker-Dealers are required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resales of Exchange Notes (such period shall in no event exceed 270 days after the closing of the Registered Exchange Offers) and (D) use all commercially reasonable efforts to issue on or prior to 30 days, or longer, if required by United States federal securities laws, after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC, Exchange Notes in exchange for all Transfer Restricted Securities tendered prior thereto in the Registered Exchange Offers.
 
Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offers, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offers to enable each Holder eligible and electing to exchange Transfer Restricted Securities for Exchange Notes (assuming that such Holder (a) is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, (b) is not a broker-dealer tendering Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company for its own account, (c) acquired the Exchange Notes in the ordinary course of such Holders business and (d) has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in the Registered Exchange Offers for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Notes) to transfer such Exchange Notes from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and under state securities or blue sky laws.
 
In connection with the Registered Exchange Offers, the Company shall:
 
           
(a)
make available as promptly as practicable to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
 
           
(b)
keep the Registered Exchange Offers open for acceptance for a period of not less than 30 calendar days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer if required by applicable law) (such period referred to herein as the 
Exchange Period
);
 
           
(c)
utilize the services of the Depositary for the Registered Exchange Offers;
 
           
(d)
permit Holders to withdraw tendered Transfer Restricted Securities at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time), on the last business day of the Exchange Period, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Transfer Restricted
 
 
5
 
Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holders election to have such Transfer Restricted Securities exchanged;
 
           
(e)
notify each Holder that any Transfer Restricted Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest, but will not retain any rights under this Agreement (except in the case of Participating Broker-Dealers as provided herein); and
 
           
(f)
otherwise comply in all respects with all applicable laws relating to the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
The Exchange Notes shall be issued under the 2041 Notes Indenture or the 2111 Notes Indenture, as applicable. The Indentures have or shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the ).
Trust Indenture Act
 
As soon as practicable after the close of each Registered Exchange Offer the Company shall:
 
           
(i)
accept for exchange all Transfer Restricted Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which shall be an exhibit thereto;
 
           
(ii)
deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Transfer Restricted Securities so accepted for exchange; and
 
          
(iii)
cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Notes to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities so accepted for exchange in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
Interest on each Exchange Note will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Transfer Restricted Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on such Transfer Restricted Securities, from the date of original issuance. Each Registered Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Registered Exchange Offer or the making of any exchange by a Holder does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) the due tendering of Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with such Registered Exchange Offer, (iii) that each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities exchanged in such Registered Exchange Offer shall have represented that all Exchange Notes to be received by it shall be acquired in the ordinary course of its business and that at the time of the consummation of such Registered Exchange Offer it shall have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Exchange Notes and shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or other appropriate form under the 1933 Act available and (iv) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by or before any governmental agency with respect to such Registered Exchange
 
 
6
 
Offer which, in the Companys judgment, would reasonably be expected to impair the ability of the Company to proceed with such Registered Exchange Offer.
 
           
2.2
Shelf Registration
.  If with respect to a Registered Exchange Offer (i) the Company is not (A) required to file the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or (B) permitted to consummate the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2.1 hereof, in either case, because such Registered Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or SEC policy, or (ii) any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities notifies the Company after commencement of the Registered Exchange Offer and prior to the 20th business day following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer that (A) it is prohibited by law or SEC policy from participating in such Registered Exchange Offer, (B) it may not resell the Exchange Notes acquired by it in such Registered Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales or (C) it is a broker-dealer and owns Transfer Restricted Securities subject to such Registered Exchange Offer acquired directly from the Company or an Affiliate of the Companys, the Company will:
 
           
(a)
As promptly as practicable, but no later than 45 days after the occurrence of such event, file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement to cover resales of the applicable Transfer Restricted Securities by the Holders of such Transfer Restricted Securities from time to time who satisfy the conditions set forth in Section 3(v) hereof relating to the provision of information in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
           
(b)
Use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become effective under the 1933 Act no later than 90 days after the occurrence of such event.
 
           
(c)
Use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the date the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective under the 1933 Act, or for such shorter period that will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or cease to be outstanding or otherwise to be Transfer Restricted Securities (the 
Effectiveness Period
);
provided
,
however
, that the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Shelf Registration Statement shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the 1933 Act and as otherwise provided herein.
 
           
(d)
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
 
 
7
 
and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
The Company shall not permit any securities other than Transfer Restricted Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, as required by Section 3(b) below, and to furnish to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
 
           
2.3
Expenses
.  The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 or 2.2. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holders Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
           
2.4
Effectiveness
.  
(a)
  The Company will be deemed not to have used all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite period if the Company voluntarily takes any action that would, or omits to take any action which omission would, result in any such Registration Statement not being declared or becoming effective or in the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Transfer Restricted Securities during that period as and to the extent contemplated hereby, unless such action is required by applicable law.
 
           
(b)
An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or has otherwise become effective under the 1933 Act;
provided
,
however
, that if, after it has been declared or has otherwise become effective, the offering of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume.
 
           
2.5
Additional Interest
.  If (a) the Company fails to file any of the Registration Statements required by this Agreement on or before the date specified herein for such filing, (b) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, has not been declared effective by the SEC or has not otherwise become effective under the 1933 Act on or prior to the deadlines for effectiveness specified in Section 2.1 and Section 2.2 of this Agreement (the 
Effectiveness Target Date
), (c) the Company fails to consummate a Registered Exchange Offer within 30 days of the Effectiveness Target Date with respect to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or (d) the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as applicable, is declared or becomes effective but thereafter ceases to be
 
 
8
 
effective or usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified in this Agreement (each such event referred to in clauses (a) through (d) above, a ), the Company shall be required to pay to the Holders of the applicable Securities (that is, the Securities to which such Registration Default applies, which may be all the Securities or a particular series of the Securities) an additional amount () on such Securities equal to one-quarter of one percent per annum of the principal amount of such Securities, which amount will increase by one quarter of one percent per annum each 90-day period that such Additional Interest continues to accrue under any such circumstance, provided that the maximum aggregate amount of Additional Interest payable hereunder will in no event exceed one half of one percent per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease.
Registration Default
Additional Interest
 
The Company shall notify the Trustee within three business days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an ). Additional Interest shall be paid by depositing with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, on or before the applicable semiannual interest payment date, immediately available funds in sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date to the record Holder of Securities entitled to receive the interest payment to be paid on such date as set forth in the applicable Indenture. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the applicable Event Date.
Event Date
 
           
3.
Registration Procedures
.
 
In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof, the Company shall:
 
           
(a)
prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities by the selling Holders thereof, (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein, and (iv) shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Regulation S-T under the 1933 Act, and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
 
           
(b)
prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in
 
 
9
 
accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof (including sales by any Participating Broker-Dealer);
 
           
(c)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of the applicable Transfer Restricted Securities to which its obligation to file a Shelf Registration Statement applies, at least five business days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Transfer Restricted Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of such Transfer Restricted Securities will be made in accordance with the method selected by the Majority Holders; (ii) furnish to each Holder of such Transfer Restricted Securities and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of such Transfer Restricted Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so requests, all exhibits in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities; and (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of such Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
 
           
(d)
use all commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Transfer Restricted Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder and underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Transfer Restricted Securities owned by such Holder;
provided
,
however
, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
 
           
(e)
notify promptly each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities under a Shelf Registration or any Participating Broker-Dealer who has notified the Company that it is utilizing the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as provided in paragraph (f) below and, if requested by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities covered thereby, the
 
 
10
 
representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to the offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Registration Statement untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (vi) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement in the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities or the Exchange Notes, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (viii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement would be appropriate;
 
           
(f)
(A) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled Plan of Distribution which section shall be reasonably acceptable to the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers, and which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential underwriter status of any broker-dealer that holds Transfer Restricted Securities acquired for their own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that will be the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Exchange Notes to be received by such broker-dealer in the Registered Exchange Offers, whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the SEC or such positions or policies, in the reasonable judgment of the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers and its counsel, represent the prevailing views of the staff of the SEC, including a statement that any such broker-dealer who receives Exchange Notes for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offers may be deemed a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes, (ii) furnish to each Participating Broker-Dealer who has delivered to the Company the notice referred to in Section 3(e), without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Broker-Dealer may reasonably request, (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any Person subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the SEC, including all Participating Broker-Dealers, in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Notes covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (iv) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Registered Exchange Offers (x) the following provision:
 
 
11
 
 
If the exchange offeree is a broker-dealer holding Transfer Restricted Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of Exchange Notes received in respect of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offers; and
 
(y) a statement to the effect that by a broker-dealer making the acknowledgment described in clause (x) and by delivering a Prospectus in connection with the exchange of Transfer Restricted Securities, the broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an underwriter within the meaning of the 1933 Act;
 
          
(g)
(i) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration, furnish counsel for the Dealer Managers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities copies of any comment letters received from the SEC or any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
 
          
(h)
use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement at the earliest possible moment;
 
           
(i)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities to which the Shelf Registration applies, and each underwriter, if any, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules (without documents incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto, unless requested);
 
           
(j)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing such Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request at least three business days prior to the closing of any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities;
 
           
(k)
upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(v), 3(e)(vi) and 3(e)(vii) hereof, as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use all commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Transfer Restricted Securities or Participating Broker-Dealers, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not
 
 
12
 
necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
 
           
(l)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or any document which is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or a Prospectus after initial filing of a Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Dealer Managers on behalf of such Holders; and make representatives of the Company as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, or the Dealer Managers on behalf of such Holders, available for discussion of such document;
 
           
(m)
obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Notes or the Transfer Restricted Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
 
           
(n)
(i) cause the Indentures to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indentures as may be required for the Indentures to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act and (iii) execute, and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indentures to be so qualified in a timely manner;
 
           
(o)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities and in such connection whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration:
 
           
(i)
make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Transfer Restricted Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by them;
 
           
(ii)
obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings and
 
 
13
 
such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
 
         
(iii)
obtain comfort letters and updates thereof from the Companys independent registered public accounting firm (and, if necessary, any other independent registered public accounting firm of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement) addressed to the underwriters, if any, and use all commercially reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities (in accordance with AU Section 634:  Letters for Underwriters and Certain other Requesting Parties of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts), such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings;
 
         
(iv)
enter into a securities sales agreement with the Holders and an agent of the Holders providing for, among other things, the appointment of such agent for the selling Holders for the purpose of soliciting purchases of Transfer Restricted Securities, which agreement shall be in form, substance and scope customary for similar offerings;
 
          
(v)
if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section or, at the request of any underwriters, in the form customarily provided to such underwriters in similar types of transactions; and
 
         
(vi)
deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold and the managing underwriters, if any.
 
The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder;
 
           
(p)
in the case of a Shelf Registration or if a Prospectus is required to be delivered by any Participating Broker-Dealer in the case of the Registered Exchange Offers, make available for inspection by representatives of the Holders of the Transfer Restricted Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, any Participating Broker-Dealer and any counsel or accountant retained by any of the foregoing, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter,
 
 
14
 
special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement, and make such representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant; provided that information which the Company determines in good faith, to be confidential and which it notifies such parties is confidential shall not be disclosed by such parties unless (i) such parties reasonably determine that the disclosure of such information is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or omission in the applicable Registration Statement or the related Prospectus, (ii) such party reasonably determines, based on the advice of counsel, that disclosure of such information is required pursuant to a subpoena or other order for a court of competent jurisdiction or any other administrative agency or is otherwise required by applicable law, in which case each such party shall promptly notify, if permitted by applicable law, the Company or (iii) such information has been made generally available to the public;
 
           
(q)
(i) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration, a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Dealer Managers and to Special Counsel and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Dealer Managers or Special Counsel may reasonably request and, except as otherwise required by applicable law, not file any such document in a form to which the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities and counsel to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or counsel to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall reasonably object, and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Dealer Managers; and
 
          
(ii)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, to the Dealer Managers, to counsel for the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, if any, make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Dealer Managers, the counsel to the Holders or the underwriter or underwriters reasonably request and not file any such document in a form to which the Majority Holders, the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, counsel for the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Majority Holders, the Dealer Managers on behalf of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities, counsel to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or any underwriter shall reasonably object, and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Transfer Restricted
 
 
15
 
Securities, counsel for the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or any underwriter;
 
           
(r)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause all applicable Transfer Restricted Securities to which such Shelf Registration applies, to be listed on any securities exchange on which similar debt securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of such Transfer Restricted Securities, if any;
 
           
(s)
in the case of a Shelf Registration, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities to be rated by the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, if any;
 
           
(t)
otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least 12 months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder;
 
          
(u)
cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel (including any qualified independent underwriter that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA); and
 
           
(v)
in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holders participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of the applicable Transfer Restricted Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Transfer Restricted Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
 
Each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of (i) the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(v) or 3(e)(vi) hereof, or (ii) the good faith determination of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company that the continued effectiveness of the applicable Registration Statement and use of the Prospectus would require disclosure of confidential information related to a material acquisition or divestiture of assets or a material corporate transaction, event or development, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holders receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in such Holders possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holders possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice; provided that the Company shall not allow the applicable Registration Statement to fail or cease to be effective or allow the Prospectus to be unusable pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph for more than 45 days during any year of
 
 
16
 
effectiveness contemplated by Section 2 hereof. It is understood and agreed that the provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the Companys obligations under Section 2.5 of this Agreement.
 
Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities hereby agrees with the Company and each other such Holder that no Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may participate in any underwritten offering hereunder unless (a) the Company gives its prior written consent to such underwritten offering, (b) the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering shall be selected by the Majority Holders of such Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company, (c) each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities participating in such underwritten offering agrees to sell such Holders Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements (d) each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities participating in such underwritten offering completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
. No
 
           
4.
Indemnification; Contribution
.
 
           
(a)
With respect to the Securities, the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Dealer Managers, each Holder, each Participating Broker-Dealer, each Person who participates as an underwriter (any such Person being an Underwriter) and each Person, if any, who controls any such Person within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act with respect to the Securities as follows:
 
           
(i)
against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
           
(ii)
against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 4(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
 
           
(iii)
against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any
 
 
17
 
investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above;
 
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Holder or Underwriter expressly for use in a Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
 
           
(b)
Each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of the Dealer Managers, each Underwriter, each Participating Broker-Dealer and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, each of the Dealer Managers, any Underwriter, any Participating Broker-Dealer or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto);
provided
,
however
, that no such Holder shall be liable for any claims hereunder in excess of the amount of net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.
 
           
(c)
Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of such action;
provided
,
however
, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 4 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
 
 
18
 
 
           
(d)
If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 4(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
 
           
(e)
If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders, Underwriters, Participating Broker-Dealers and the Dealer Managers on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders, Underwriters, Participating Broker-Dealers and the Dealer Managers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Holders. Underwriters, Participating Broker-Dealers or the Dealer Managers and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Company, the Holders, Underwriters, Participating Broker-Dealers and the Dealer Managers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Dealer Managers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Dealer Manager, Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer or Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages which such Dealer Manager, Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer or Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission with respect to the Securities from the sale of the Securities.
 
 
19
 
 
No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 4, each Person, if any, who controls a Dealer Manager, Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Dealer Manager, Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer or Underwriter and each director of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.  The Dealer Managers respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several and not joint.
 
           
5.
Miscellaneous
.
 
         
5.1
Rule 144 and Rule 144A
.  For so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act, the Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the 1933 Act and Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder. If the Company ceases to be so required to file such reports, the Company covenants that it will upon the request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (a) make publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (b) deliver such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act and it will take such further action as any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may reasonably request, and (c) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its Transfer Restricted Securities without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (i) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (ii) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (iii) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC.  Upon the request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Company will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
 
         
5.2
No Inconsistent Agreements
.  The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Companys other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
 
         
5.3
Amendments and Waivers
.  The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
 
 
20
 
 
         
5.4
Notices
.  All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4, which address initially is the address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement with respect to the Dealer Managers; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Companys address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4.
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the applicable Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture.
 
         
5.5
Successor and Assigns
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities in violation of the terms of the Dealer Manager Agreement or the Indentures. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Transfer Restricted Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Transfer Restricted Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Transfer Restricted Securities such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Dealer Manager Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
 
         
5.6
Third Party Beneficiaries
.  Each Holder and Participating Broker-Dealer shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Dealer Managers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder. Each Holder by its acquisition of Securities shall be deemed to have agreed to the provisions of Section 4(b) hereof.
 
         
5.7
Specific Enforcement
.  Without limiting the remedies available to the Dealer Managers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it would not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Companys obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof.
 
 
21
 
 
         
5.8
Restriction on Resales
.  The Company will not, and will cause their affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the 1933 Act) not to, resell any Securities which are restricted securities (as such term is defined under Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act) that have been reacquired by any of them and shall immediately upon any purchase of any such Securities submit such Securities to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
         
5.9
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 
       
5.10
Headings
.  The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
 
       
5.11
GOVERNING LAW
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF.
 
 
22
 
5.12       .  In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as
 
 of the date first above written:
 
 
 
24
 
 


