FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20110826163517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
Item 8.01.
Other Events
 
On August 26, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing that it has commenced private exchange offers for certain of its outstanding debt securities.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
            The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 26, 2011
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

                                            Norfolk Southern Corporation, Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Va. 23510-2191
NORFOLK SOUTHERN ANNOUNCES PRIVATE EXCHANGE OFFERS
 
NORFOLK, VA.  Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Company") announced today the commencement of offers to certain eligible holders (together, the "Exchange Offers") of the Company's outstanding debt securities listed in the table below (together, the "Existing Notes") to exchange Existing Notes for consideration consisting of cash and up to $600,000,000 combined aggregate principal amount of: (1) the Company's new Notes due 2041 (the "2041 Notes") or, in the alternative (the "2111 Option"), in the case of the 7.90% Notes due 2097 (the "2097 Notes") only, (2) the Company's 6.00% Senior Notes due 2111 (the "2111 Notes" and, together with the 2041 Notes, the "New Notes"), in the proportions set forth in the table below, the complete terms of which are set forth in an offering memorandum, dated today (the "Offering Memorandum"), and the related letter of transmittal, dated today (together with theOffering Memorandum, the "Offering Documents").
 
 
________________________________
 
The combined aggregate principal amount of New Notes to be issued pursuant to the Exchange Offers will be subject to a maximum amount of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount (the "Overall Issue Amount"), and the principal amount of 2111 Notes to be issued pursuant to one of the Exchange Offers for the 2097 Notes will be subject to a maximum amount of $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount (the "2111 Maximum Issue Amount"). In addition,
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation, Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Va. 23510-2191
 
the principal amount of each series of Existing Notes that is accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offers will be subject to the "acceptance priority level" (in numerical priority order) of such series as set forth in the table above and as further described in the Offering Documents.
 
All Existing Notes that are tendered for exchange in an Exchange Offer on or before the Early Exchange Date will have priority over Existing Notes that are tendered for exchange after the Early Exchange Date. If the principal amount of Existing Notes validly tendered on or before the Early Exchange Date constitutes a principal amount of Existing Notes that, if accepted by the Company, would result in the Company issuing New Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to or in excess of the Overall Issue Amount, the Company will not accept any Existing Notes tendered for exchange after the Early Exchange Date (even if they are of acceptance priority level 1). Similarly, if the principal amount of 2097 Notes validly tendered on or before the Early Exchange Date for which the 2111 Option is elected constitutes a principal amount of such 2097 Notes that, if accepted by the Company, would result in the Company issuing 2111 Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to or in excess of the 2111 Maximum Issue Amount, the Company will not issue any additional 2111 Notes after the Early Settlement Date.
 
The following is a summary of certain key elements of the planned Exchange Offers:
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation, Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Va. 23510-2191
 
 
If and when issued, the New Notes will not have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or any state securities laws.  The New Notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The Company will enter into a registration rights agreement with
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation, Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Va. 23510-2191
 
respect to the New Notes. The New Notes will be unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
 
The Exchange Offers are only made, and copies of the documents relating to the Exchange Offers will only be made available, to a holder of Existing Notes who has certified in an eligibility letter certain matters to the Company, including its status as a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act or who is a person other than a "U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 under the Securities Act. Holders of Existing Notes who desire access to the electronic eligibility form should contact D.F. King & Co., Inc., the information agent for the Exchange Offers, at (800) 848-3416 (U.S. Toll-free) or (212) 269-5550 (Collect). Holders that wish to receive the Offering Documents can certify eligibility at http://www.dfking.com/norfolksouthern
 
This news release does not constitute an offer or an invitation by the Company to participate in the Exchange Offers in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation (NYSE: NSC) is one of the nation's premier transportation companies. Its Norfolk Southern Railway subsidiary operates approximately 20,000 route miles in 22 states and the District of Columbia, serves every major container port in the eastern United States, and provides efficient connections to other rail carriers. Norfolk Southern operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is a major transporter of coal and industrial products.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements about Norfolk Southern Corporation, including those related to the offering of New Notes and whether or not Norfolk Southern will consummate the offering.  Forward-looking statements reflect management's good-faith evaluation of information currently available.  However, such statements are dependent on and, therefore, can be influenced by a number of external variables over which management has little or no control, including: legislative and regulatory developments; transportation of hazardous materials as a common carrier by rail; acts of terrorism or war; general economic conditions; impacts of environmental regulations on utility coal customers and/or the value of certain of Norfolk Southern's assets; competition and consolidation within the transportation industry; the operations of carriers with which it interchanges; disruptions to its technology infrastructure, including computer systems; labor difficulties, including strikes and work stoppages; results of litigation; natural events such as severe weather, hurricanes, and floods; unavailability of qualified personnel due to unpredictability of demand for rail services; fluctuation in supplies and prices of key materials, in particular diesel fuel; and changes in securities and capital markets.  Information concerning potential factors that could affect Norfolk Southern's financial results is included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as, a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved.  As a result, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.  Norfolk Southern undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation, Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Va. 23510-2191
 
Norfolk Southern contacts:
Media: Robin Chapman, 757-629-2713 (robin.chapman@nscorp.com)
Investors: Michael Hostutler, 757-629-2861 (michael.hostutler@nscorp.com)
 


