FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20110912145855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.     Other Events
 
On September 9, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the pricing of its private exchange offers (the Exchange Offers) for its outstanding 7.90% Notes due 2097, 7.05% Notes due 2037, 7.25% Notes due 2031 and 7.80% Notes due 2027. On September 12, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the results of its Exchange Offers through 5:00 pm, New York City time, on September 9, 2011 (which was the early exchange date in connection with the Exchange Offers).  The Exchange Offers will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on September 23, 2011, unless extended by the Registrant. Copies of the press releases are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 12, 2011
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Norfolk Southern announces pricing of previously announced exchange offers and interest rate for new notes
NORFOLK, VA.  Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Company") today announced the pricing of its offers (the "Exchange Offers") to certain eligible holders to exchange outstanding debt securities listed in the table below (together, the "Existing Notes") for cash and up to $600,000,000 combined aggregate principal amount (the "Overall Issue Amount") of (i) the Company's new Notes due 2041 (the "2041 Notes"), or, in the alternative, in the case of the 7.90% Notes due 2097 (the "2097 Notes") only (the "2111 Option"), (ii) the Companys 6.00% Senior Notes due 2111 (the "2111 Notes" and, together with the 2041 Notes, the "New Notes"), the complete terms and conditions of which are set forth in a confidential Offering Memorandum, dated August 26, 2011 (the "Offering Memorandum"), and the related Letter of Transmittal. The Company also announced that it will pay interest on the 2041 Notes at a rate per annum equal to 4.837%, as calculated in accordance with the Offering Memorandum.
Existing Notes validly tendered and accepted by the Company at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 9, 2011 (the "Early Exchange Date"), are expected to settle on September 14, 2011 (the "Early Settlement Date"), unless extended by the Company. Confirmation of the Early Settlement Date will be set forth in a subsequent press release.
The table below indicates, among other things, the Total Exchange Consideration for each $1,000 principal amount of Existing Notes tendered and accepted as of the Early Exchange Date pursuant to the Exchange Offers (as determined in accordance with the Offering Memorandum):
________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
The Exchange Offers are scheduled to expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on September 23, 2011 (the "Expiration Date"), unless extended or earlier terminated. Holders of Existing Notes who tender their Existing Notes for New Notes and cash after the Early Exchange Date but prior to the Expiration Date will be eligible to receive the total exchange consideration minus the early exchange premium of $30 per $1,000 principal amount of Existing Notes tendered and accepted for exchange. In such case, the early exchange premium will be deducted from the cash portion of the total exchange consideration. The aggregate principal amount of Existing Notes accepted for exchange on the Early Settlement Date will reduce the amount of Existing Notes that may be accepted for exchange on any subsequent settlement date, as more fully set forth in the Offering Memorandum.
The table below indicates, among other things, the value attributed to the 2111 Notes for purposes of determining the Total Exchange Consideration in the Exchange Offers (as calculated in accordance with the Offering Memorandum), for each $1,000 aggregate principal amount of 2111 Notes:
After 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 9, 2011, tenders of Existing Notes in the Exchange Offers may no longer be withdrawn, except in certain limited circumstances where additional withdrawal rights are required by law. Consummation of the Exchange Offers is subject to a number of conditions as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, including the absence of certain adverse legal and market developments.
If and when issued, the New Notes will not have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or any state securities laws. The New Notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The Company will enter into a registration rights agreement with respect to the New Notes.
This news release does not constitute an offer or a solicitation by the Company to participate in the Exchange Offers in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
is one of the nations premier transportation companies. Its Norfolk Southern Railway subsidiary operates approximately 20,000 in 22 states and the District of Columbia, serves every major container port in the eastern United States, and provides efficient connections to other rail carriers. Norfolk Southern operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is a major transporter of coal and industrial products.
Norfolk Southern Corporation
route miles
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
environmental regulations on utility coal customers and/or the value of certain of Norfolk Southern's assets; competition and consolidation within the transportation industry; the operations of carriers with which it interchanges; disruptions to its technology infrastructure, including computer systems; labor difficulties, including strikes and work stoppages; results of litigation; natural events such as severe weather, hurricanes, and floods; unavailability of qualified personnel due to unpredictability of demand for rail services; fluctuation in supplies and prices of key materials, in particular diesel fuel; and changes in securities and capital markets.  Information concerning potential factors that could affect Norfolk Southern's financial results is included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as, a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved.  As a result, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.  Norfolk Southern undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements.
This release contains forward-looking statements about Norfolk Southern Corporation, including those related to the offering of New Notes and whether or not Norfolk Southern will consummate the offering.  Forward-looking statements reflect management's good-faith evaluation of information currently available.  However, such statements are dependent on and, therefore, can be influenced by a number of external variables over which management has little or no control, including: legislative and regulatory developments; transportation of hazardous materials as a common carrier by rail; acts of terrorism or war; general economic conditions; impacts of
Norfolk Southern contacts:
(Media) , 757-629-2713 (robin.chapman@nscorp.com)
Robin Chapman
(Investors) , 757-629-2861 (michael.hostutler@nscorp.com)
Michael Hostutler
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN ANNOUNCES EXPIRATION OF EARLY EXCHANGE PERIOD OF PREVIOUSLY ANNOUNCED EXCHANGE OFFERS
 
NORFOLK, VA.  Norfolk Southern Corporation (the "Company") today announced the expiration of the early exchange period in connection with its offers (the "Exchange Offers") to certain eligible holders to exchange outstanding debt securities listed in the table below (together, the "Existing Notes") for cash and up to $600,000,000 combined aggregate principal amount (the "Overall Issue Amount") of (i) the Company's 4.837% Notes due 2041 (the "2041 Notes"), or, in the alternative, in the case of the 7.90% Notes due 2097 (the "2097 Notes") only, (ii) the Company's 6.00% Senior Notes due 2111 (the "2111 Notes" and, together with the 2041 Notes, the "New Notes"), the complete terms and conditions of which are set forth in a confidential Offering Memorandum, dated August 26, 2011 (the "Offering Memorandum"), and the related Letter of Transmittal.
 
In the Exchange Offers, according to information provided by D.F. King & Co., Inc., the exchange agent for the Exchange Offers, $690,044,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's Existing Notes were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 9, 2011 (the "Early Exchange Date"), as more fully set forth below. In accordance with the acceptance priority levels and proration procedures described in the Offering Memorandum, the Company will accept $525,773,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Existing Notes that were tendered for exchange at or prior to the Early Exchange Date. The Company expects to deliver a combined aggregate principal amount of $599,996,000 of New Notes and will pay an aggregate of $159,231,320.44 cash consideration, including accrued interest, for the Existing Notes accepted for exchange on September 14, 2011 (the "Early Settlement Date"). Since Existing Notes have been validly tendered so that the maximum amount of New Notes to be issued in exchange for such tendered Existing Notes exceeds the Overall Issue Amount, no additional Existing Notes will be accepted for exchange after the Early Exchange Date.
 
The table below indicates, among other things, the principal amount of each series of Existing Notes validly tendered as of the Early Exchange Date, the principal amount of Existing Notes to be accepted for exchange as of the Early Exchange Date and the percentage of the principal amount of Existing Notes to be accepted for exchange pursuant to the Exchange Offers:
 
________________________________
(1)  Represents the proration factor since Existing Notes were validly tendered so that the maximum amount of New Notes to be issued in exchange for such tendered Existing Notes would have exceeded the Overall Issue Amount.
 
 
 
 
 
The Exchange Offers are scheduled to expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on September 23, 2011 (the "Expiration Date"), unless extended or earlier terminated.
 
Tenders of Existing Notes in the Exchange Offers may no longer be withdrawn, except in certain limited circumstances where additional withdrawal rights are required by law. Consummation of the Exchange Offers is subject to a number of conditions as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, including the absence of certain adverse legal and market developments.
 
If and when issued, the New Notes will not have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") or any state securities laws.  The New Notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The Company will enter into a registration rights agreement with respect to the New Notes.
 
This news release does not constitute an offer or a solicitation by the Company to participate in the Exchange Offers in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation (NYSE: NSC) is one of the nation's premier transportation companies. Its Norfolk Southern Railway subsidiary operates approximately 20,000 route miles in 22 states and the District of Columbia, serves every major container port in the eastern United States, and provides efficient connections to other rail carriers. Norfolk Southern operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is a major transporter of coal and industrial products.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements about Norfolk Southern Corporation, including those related to the offering of New Notes and whether or not Norfolk Southern will consummate the offering.  Forward-looking statements reflect management's good-faith evaluation of information currently available.  However, such statements are dependent on and, therefore, can be influenced by a number of external variables over which management has little or no control, including: legislative and regulatory developments; transportation of hazardous materials as a common carrier by rail; acts of terrorism or war; general economic conditions; impacts of environmental regulations on utility coal customers and/or the value of certain of Norfolk Southern's assets; competition and consolidation within the transportation industry; the operations of carriers with which it interchanges; disruptions to its technology infrastructure, including computer systems; labor difficulties, including strikes and work stoppages; results of litigation; natural events such as severe weather, hurricanes, and floods; unavailability of qualified personnel due to unpredictability of demand for rail services; fluctuation in supplies and prices of key materials, in particular diesel fuel; and changes in securities and capital markets.  Information concerning potential factors that could affect Norfolk Southern's financial results is included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as, a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performance or results will be achieved.  As a result, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.  Norfolk Southern undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern contacts:
Media: Robin Chapman, 757-629-2713 (robin.chapman@nscorp.com)
Investors: Michael Hostutler, 757-629-2861 (michael.hostutler@nscorp.com)
 


