FILE:NSC/NSC-8K-20120315152050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
  
o
 
 
 
See description under Item 2.03
On March 15, 2012, the Registrant completed its offering of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.000% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Notes) pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of March 12, 2012 (the Agreement), by and among the Registrant and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein.  The Notes were sold pursuant to the Registrants Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179569).  The Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1.
 
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (the Base Indenture), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (the First Supplemental Indenture and, together with the Base Indenture, the Indenture), each between the Registrant and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee. The Notes will pay interest semi-annually in arrears at a rate of 3.000% per annum.
The Notes may be redeemed in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Registrants option, as described below.
If the Notes are redeemed prior to the date that is three months prior to their maturity date, the redemption price for the Notes to be redeemed will equal the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a specified rate, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
If the Notes are redeemed on or after the date that is three months prior to their maturity date, the redemption price for the Notes to be redeemed will equal 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
The Indenture contains negative covenants and events of default that are consistent with the provisions of the Registrants existing indentures.
The Base Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and the First Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2. The descriptions of the Indenture contained herein are qualified by reference thereto.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
                                                           
                                         
Date:  March 15, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 12, 2012
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York  10179
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York  10036
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the ), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the ), for whom you are acting as representatives (the ), $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 3.000% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ).
Company
Underwriters
Representatives
Notes
 
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture, to be dated as of March 15, 2012, between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee (the ), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of March 15, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ).  The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ), pursuant to a blanket Letter of Representations on file with the Depositary (the ), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Trustee
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
 
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179569), which contains a base prospectus (the ), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act.  Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the .  Any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act is called the  and from and after the date and time of filing of the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement the term Registration Statement shall include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement.  The term  shall mean the final
 
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Rule 462(b) Registration Statement
Prospectus
 
 
2
 
 
prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the ) by the parties hereto.  under the Securities Act.  Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 2:20 p.m. on March 12, 2012 (the ).  All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ().
Execution Time
The term 
Preliminary Prospectus
 shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is contained, included or stated (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
 
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
 
.
Section 1.  
Representations and Warranties
of the Company
 
The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ), as follows:
Representation Date
 
a)           . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ).
Compliance with Registration Requirements
Trust Indenture Act
 
At the respective times the Registration Statement became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement (i) complied and will comply in all material
 
 
3
 
 
respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.  At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with Underwriter Information (as defined in Section 8(a) hereof).
 
The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission via EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
b)           The term  shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated March 12, 2012, (ii) any issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an ) identified in Exhibit B hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package.  As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with Underwriter Information.
Disclosure Package.  
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
c)           .  The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
d)           .  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) under the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 under the Securities Act,
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
 
 
4
 
 
and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a well known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement is an automatic shelf registration statement, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
 
e)           . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
 
f)           .  Each Issuer Free Writing ProspectussubsequentThe foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with Underwriter Information.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
, as of its issue date and at all
times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict.  
 
g)           The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Exhibit B hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.  
 
h)           There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.  
 
i)           This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.  
 
j)           .  The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.  The Indenture has been duly authorized and, prior to the issuance of the
Authorization of the Indenture
 
 
5
 
 
Notes at the Closing Date, the Indenture shall have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, upon such execution and delivery, shall constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
 
k)           The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.  
 
l)             The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
 
m)           The statements in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions Description of the Notes and Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders, in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.  
 
n)           .  Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there has not been any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, shareholders equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change
 
o)           KPMG LLP, who have certified the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and supporting schedules incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.  
 
p)           The financial statements together with the related notes thereto, incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified.  Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting
Preparation of the Financial Statements.  
 
 
6
 
 
requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States () applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.  No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement.  The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. In addition, if any pro forma financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto are included in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, such pro forma financial statements and related notes present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commissions rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.  The interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus has been prepared in accordance with the Commissions rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
GAAP
 
 
q)           The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its property requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 1(s) hereof) or adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations with respect to, or the enforceability of, the Notes or its business or financial condition.
Good Standing of the Company.  
 
r)           The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of Norfolk Southern Railway Company () owned by the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, and (except for directors qualifying shares) are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims other than agreements relating to joint venture companies.
Capitalization.  
NSR
 
s)           The issue and sale of the Notes and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Notes, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any of the property or assets of the Company or NSR pursuant to the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or NSR is a party or by which the Company or NSR is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts.  
 
 
7
 
 
or NSR is subject, other than those conflicts, breaches or defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a ), or violate any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or NSR or any of their properties other than those violations that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Notes or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ().
Material Adverse Effect
FINRA
 
t)           There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject which is required to be described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the Securities Act which is not described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus; the legal or governmental proceedings not so described are proceedings incidental to the kind of business conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise which will not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; and there is no material contract or other material document of a character which is required to be described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the Securities Act which are not described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
Absence of Proceedings.  
 
u)           Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.  
OFAC
 
v)           .  There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Companys directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
w)             The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with managements general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain asset
Internal Controls and Procedures.
 
 
8
 
 
accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with managements general or specific authorization; (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; and (E) the interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus is prepared in accordance with the Commissions rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
 
x)           Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of the Companys most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Companys internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Companys internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.  
 
y)           .  There are no franchises, contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
 
z)           . The Company acknowledges that in accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
USA Patriot Act Acknowledgement
 
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
 
Section 2.  
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the
Notes.
 
a)           The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 98.287% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes
.  
 
b)           Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Sidley Austin , 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019  (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on March 15, 2012, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the ).
The Closing Date
.  
LLP
Closing Date
 
 
9
 
 
c)           The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.  
 
d)           Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.  It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase.  The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Payment for the Notes.  
 
e)           The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor.  The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate.  Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.  
 
Section 3.  
Covenants
o
f the Company
.
 
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
 
a)      The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B under the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined in Section 3(b) hereof) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 under the Securities Act was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
.  
 
 
10
 
 
document.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
 
b)        During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act (the ), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
.
Prospectus Delivery Period
 
c)      The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters.  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission via EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
.  
 
d)      The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission via EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
.  
 
e)      .  The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
 
11
 
 
a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
 
f)      The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes.  The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified.  The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.  
 
g)      The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption Use of Proceeds in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.  
 
h)      The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.  
 
i)      During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange () all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.  
NYSE
 
j)      During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open put equivalent position within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company substantially similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
 
 
 
12
 
 
debt securities substantially similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
 
k)      .  The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C hereto (but including the expected ratings of the Notes), and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ).  Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
 
l)      .  The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act; that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Exhibit B to this Agreement.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a .  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.  The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an issuer free writing prospectus as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k) hereof, or (iv) customary pricing terms.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
provided
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
m)        If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the ) of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives.  If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days after the Renewal Deadline.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Notes.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline.
Renewal Deadline
 
 
13
 
 
n)      .  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of such notice pursuant to the Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
 
o)      .  The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rules 456(b)(1) and 457(r) under the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
 
p)      The Company will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Companys directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
 
each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, the DTC Agreement the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notesthe fees
Section 4.  
Payment of Expenses
.  
The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Companys counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts),
, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture
and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a Blue Sky Survey or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi)
,
(vii)
 
 
14
 
 
and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Notes on the New York Stock Exchange, (viii) in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (x) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for book-entry transfer.
the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (ix) any fees payable
, (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xii) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section 4
  Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Section 5.  
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
.  
 
a)      .  The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel for the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A under the Securities Act).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
b)      On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from KPMG LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants Comfort Letter
.  
 
c)      .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from KPMG LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
d)      For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
.  
 
 
15
 
 
(i)  in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, shareholders equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus;
 
(ii)  there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in subsection (b) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
 
(iii)  there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
 
e)      On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of William A. Galanko, Esq., Vice President  Law of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-1, and the opinions of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel for the Company, the forms of which are attached as Exhibit A-2.
Opinions of Counsel for the Company
.  
 
f)      On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
.  
 
g)      On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or an Executive Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers Certificate
.  
 
(i)  the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
 
(ii)  the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
 
(iii)  the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
 
 
16
 
 
(iv)  the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
 
h)      On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional
Documents.  
 
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
 
If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 10 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Section 6.  
Reimbursement of Underwriters Expenses
.  
 
This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 7.  
Effectiveness of this Agreement
.  
 
Section 8.  
Indemnification
.
 
(a)  
Indemnification of the Underwriters
.  
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation,
or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based
(i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus
 
 
17
 
 
The term  shall mean written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and/or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).  The Company hereby acknowledges that Underwriter Information shall consist only of the statements set forth in the sixth and seven paragraphs under the caption Underwriting in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(or any amendment or supplement thereto)
or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action;
provided, however
, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with Underwriter Information.
The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Underwriter Information
 
(b)  
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
.  
Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto)
or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with Underwriter Information; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action.  The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
 
 
18
 
 
(c)  such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred)
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
.  
Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party;
provided
,
however
,
.  Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying partys election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
 
(d)  
Settlements
.  
The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the
 
 
19
 
 
aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
 
If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover.  The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Section 9.  
Contribution
.  
 
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
 
 
20
 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A.  For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
aggregate principal amount of such
Section 10.  
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
.  
If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the
Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.  In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
 
As used in this Agreement, the term Underwriter shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10.  Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
 
Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Companys securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the NYSE, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock
Section 11.  
Termination of this Agreement
.  
 
 
21
 
 
Market or the NYSE shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any material adverse change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
 
.  .  The Company acknowledges and agrees that:  (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arms-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the several Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
Section 12
No Fiduciary Duty
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in conjunction with any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto.
 
The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its
Section 13.  
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
.  
 
 
22
 
 
the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company,
officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter,
as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
 
All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section 14.  
Notices
.  
 
If to the Representatives:
Securities LLC
J.P. Morgan
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York  10179
Telephone: 212-834-4533
Facsimile:  212-834-6081
Attention:   High Grade Syndicate Desk
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
                   
Incorporated
50 Rockefeller Plaza
NY1-050-12-01
New York, New York  10020
Facsimile:  646-855-5958
Attention:   High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Facsimile:  212-507-8999
Attention:   Investment Banking Division
with a copy to:
 
Sidley Austin LLP
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Facsimile: 212-839-5599
Attention:  Craig E. Chapman
If to the Company:
Norfolk Southern Corporation
3 Commercial Place
 
 
23
 
Norfolk, Virginia 23510
Facsimile:  757-823-5814
Attention:  William A. Galanko
with a copy to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
4 Times Square
New York, New York 10036
Facsimile:  917-777-3574
Attention:  David J. Goldschmidt
 
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
 
This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.  The term successors shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Section 15.  
Successors
.  
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section, paragraph or provision hereof.  If any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 16.  
Partial Unenforceability
.  
 
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Section 17.  
Governing Law Provisions
.  
 
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit.  The section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 18.  
General Provisions
.  
 
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions.  Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the
 
 
24
 
 
risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
 
25
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
 
 
 
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
 
 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
 
Acting as Representatives of the
several Underwriters named in
the attached Schedule A.
 
 
 
 
 
Sch -A
 
 
 
(i)           The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its property requires such qualification, except where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(ii)           The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(iii)           The documents incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, when they were filed with the Commission appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that such counsel need express no opinion as to the financial statements, related schedules and other financial data, and such counsel need not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the documents incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(iv)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the Transaction Documents) have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
 
(v)           This Underwriting Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company; and each of the other Transaction Documents, when executed, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(vi)           The issuance and sale of the Notes have been duly authorized by the Company, and, when executed, issued and delivered by the Company, authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture (the conditions precedent to which as provided for therein, including, without limitation, Section 2.02 thereof, having been complied with) and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will be valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, except (a) to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity) and (b) that such counsel need express no opinion as to Section 6.12 of the Indenture.
 
(vii)           The Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its
 
 
Exhibit A-1-1
 
terms, except (a) to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity) and (b) that such counsel need express no opinion as to Section 6.12 of the Indenture.
 
(viii)           To the best of such counsels knowledge: (a) there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which would be required to be described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus which are not so described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and (b) no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
 
(ix)           Neither the execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction Documents nor the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the issuance and sale of the Notes, conflicts or will conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any of the property or assets of the Company or NSR pursuant to the terms of, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument known to such counsel to which the Company or NSR is a party or by which the Company or NSR is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or NSR is subject, other than those conflicts, breaches or defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, or violate any statute or any order, rule or regulation known to such counsel of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or NSR or any of their properties, other than those violations that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, nor will such actions result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, except that such counsel need express no opinion with respect to state securities or blue sky laws or the laws of any foreign jurisdiction or with respect to the rights to indemnity and contribution under this Underwriting Agreement.
 
(x)           No authorization, approval, consent or order of, and no filing, qualification or registration with, any court or governmental authority is required on the part of the Company for the execution, delivery or performance by the Company of each Transaction Document, including without limitation the issuance and sale of the Notes, other than registration or qualification under state securities or blue sky laws in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
 
(xi)           The statements set forth in the Disclosure Package and in the Prospectus under the caption Description of the Notes, insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, fairly summarize such provisions in all material respects.
 
(xii)           The Registration Statement is an automatic shelf registration statement, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic
 
 
Exhibit A-1-2
 
shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
 
(xiii)           The Registration Statement, including without limitation the information required under Rule 430B under the Securities Act (the Rule 430B Information), the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates (including without limitation each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) under the Securities Act), other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein or omitted therefrom, and the Trustees Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the Form T-1), as to which such counsel need express no opinion, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act.
 
Although such counsel need not pass upon or assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (except with respect to opinion (xi) above), nothing has come to such counsels attention that would lead such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement or any amendment thereto, including the Rule 430B Information (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom and the Form T-1, as to which such counsel need make no statement), as of its original effective date and at each deemed effective date with respect to the Underwriters pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) under the Securities Act, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Disclosure Package (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel need make no statement), as of the Initial Sale Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, to which such counsel need make no statement), as of the date of the final prospectus supplement included therein and as of the date hereof, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
In rendering the opinion required under this Exhibit A-1, counsel for the Company need not express any opinion concerning the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States of America, provided that such counsel states that he is aware of no difference between the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the laws of the State of New York which would cause him to believe that his opinion would be inapplicable if it were furnished in connection with the laws of the State of New York.  In addition, in rendering the opinion required under this Exhibit A, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact, to the extent such counsel deems it proper, on certificates of responsible officials of the Company and public officials.
 
 
Exhibit A-1-3
 
 
 
(i)           Each of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the Transaction Documents) has been duly, executed and delivered by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Company to the extent such execution and delivery are matters governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
(ii)           The Indenture constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms under the laws of the State of New York.
 
(iii)           When duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of this Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms under the laws of the State of New York.
 
(iv)           The statements in the Disclosure Package and in the Prospectus under the caption Description of the Notes, insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the Indenture and the Notes, fairly summarize such provisions in all material respects.
 
(v)           The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption Underwriting, insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of this Underwriting Agreement, fairly summarize such provisions in all material respects.
 
(vi)           Neither the execution and delivery by the Company of the Transaction Documents nor the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the issuance and sale of the Notes: (i) violates any law, rule or regulation of the State of New York or the United States of America, or (ii) requires the consent, approval, licensing or authorization of, or any filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority under any law, rule or regulation of the State of New York or the United States of America except for those consents, approvals, licenses and authorizations already obtained and those filings, recordings and registrations already made.
 
(vii)           The Company is not and, solely after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an investment company as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(viii)           Although the discussion set forth in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders does not purport to discuss all possible United States federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of the Notes to non-U.S. holders, such discussion constitutes, in all material respects, a fair and accurate summary of the United States federal
 
 
Exhibit A-2-1
 
income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of the Notes to non-U.S. holders.
 
In addition, such counsel shall state that, assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Sections 1(d) and 1(e) of this Underwriting Agreement, the Registration Statement became effective upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462 under the Securities Act, and, pursuant to Section 309 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and such counsel has been orally advised by the Commission that no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and, to its knowledge, no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission.
 
In addition, such counsel shall state that such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, counsel for the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accountants of the Company and representatives of the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and related matters were discussed.  Such counsel has not participated in the preparation of the Incorporated Documents but have, however, reviewed such documents and discussed the business and affairs of the Company with officers and other representatives of the Company.  Such counsel does not pass upon, or assume any responsibility for, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package and has made no independent check or verification thereof (except to the limited extent referred to in paragraphs (iv), (v) and (viii) above). On the basis of the foregoing, (i) the Registration Statement, at the time of effectiveness of the Registration Statement for purposes of Section 11 of the Securities Act and the Prospectus, as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement, appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act (except that in each case such counsel need not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom or the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the Form T-1)) and (ii) no facts have come to such counsels attention that have caused it to believe that the Registration Statement, at the time of effectiveness of the Registration Statement for purposes of Section 11 of the Securities Act, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus, as of the date of the Prospectus Supplement and as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that in each case such counsel need not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom, the report of managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or the auditors attestation report thereon, or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including the Form T-1).  In addition, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts have come to such counsels attention that have caused it to believe that the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in
 
 
Exhibit A-2-2
 
order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (except that such counsel need not express any view as to the financial statements, schedules and other financial information included or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom, the report of managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or the auditors attestation report thereon, or the statements contained in the exhibits to the Registration Statement, including Form T-1, to the extent included or incorporated by reference therein).
 
 
Exhibit A-2-3
 
 
 
Pricing Term Sheet dated March 12, 2012
 
Exhibit B-1
 
 
Pricing Term Sheet
Dated as of March 12
, 2012
 
The following information supplements the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated March 12, and is filed pursuant to Rule 433, under Registration No. 333-179569.
, 2012 (the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement)
 
 
 
Exhibit C-1
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and the related preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
www.sec.gov
.  Alternatively, the representatives of the underwriters can arrange to send you the prospectus and related preliminary prospectus supplement if you request it by calling J.P. Morgan Securities LLC at 1-212-834-4533 (collect), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 1-800-294-1322 or Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC at 1-866-718-1649.
This information does not purport to be a complete description of these securities or the offering.  Please refer to the preliminary prospectus supplement for a complete description of the securities. This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in any jurisdiction to any person to whom it is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
 
 
Exhibit C-2
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purposes, be deemed to be part of this Indenture.
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of March 15, 2012, between NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (the Company), and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as trustee (the Trustee).
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Companys unsecured notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the Securities) to be issued from time to time in one or more series as provided in this Indenture:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01.  
Definitions
 
, when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.05.
Act
 
 of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, control when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms controlling and controlled have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
 means Title 11, United States Code or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized and constituted committee thereof.
Board of Directors
 
 means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
 
 means any day, other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation, executive order or governmental decree to close.
Business Day
 
 means any obligation arising out of any lease of property which is required to be classified and accounted for by the lessee as a capitalized lease on a balance sheet of such lessee under generally accepted accounting principles.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
 means the Person named as the Company in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter Company shall mean such successor Person
Company
 
 
 
 
and, for purposes of any provision contained herein and expressly required by the TIA, each other obligor on the Securities of a series.
 
 or  means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by an Officer and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
 
 means, at any date, the total assets appearing on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and Restricted Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal quarter of the Company ending not more than 135 days prior to such date, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, less (i) all current liabilities (due within one year) as shown on such balance sheet, (ii) applicable reserves, (iii) investments in and advances to Securitization Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries of Securitization Subsidiaries that are consolidated on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (iv) Intangible Assets and liabilities relating thereto.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
 means the principal office of the Trustee in the City of New York at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered.
Corporate Trust Office
 
 means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
 means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
 means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, The Depository Trust Company or such other party as may be designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 2.01, until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and thereafter Depositary shall mean or include each party who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such party, Depositary as used in respect of the Securities on any such series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
Depositary
 
 or  or any similar reference shall mean the coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollars
$
 
 has the meaning set forth under Section 6.01.
Event of Default
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
 means (i) any indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary (excluding indebtedness in favor of another Restricted Subsidiary or the Company) maturing more than 12 months after the time of computation thereof, (ii) guarantees by a Restricted Subsidiary of Funded Debt or of dividends of others (except guarantees in connection with the sale or discount of accounts receivable, trade acceptances and other paper arising in the
Funded Debt
 
 
2
 
ordinary course of business), (iii) all preferred stock of a Restricted Subsidiary and (iv) all Capital Lease Obligations of a Restricted Subsidiary.
 
 means a Security evidencing all or a part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series in accordance with Section 2.12, and bearing the legend prescribed in Section 2.12.
Global Security
 
 means, with respect to a series of Securities, (i) direct obligations of a government that issues the currency in which the Securities of the series are payable for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such government is pledged, or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by such government, which, in either case under clause (i) or (ii) above, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof; or (iii) depository receipts issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligations or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
Government Obligations
 
 means the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
 
 means, at any date, without duplication, (i) all obligations for borrowed money of a Restricted Subsidiary or any other indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary, evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments and (ii) Funded Debt, except such obligations and other indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary and Funded Debt, if any, incurred as part of a Securitization Transaction.
Indebtedness
 
 means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the provisions hereof, and includes the terms of a particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 2.01.
Indenture
 
 means at any date, the value (net of any applicable reserves) as shown on or reflected in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal quarter of the Company ending not more than 135 days prior to such date, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, of: (i) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights, service marks, goodwill and other like intangibles; (ii) organizational and development costs; (iii) deferred charges (other than prepaid items, such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents, deferred interest waiver, compensation and similar items and tangible assets being amortized); and (iv) unamortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
Intangible Assets
 
 when used with respect to any Security, shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Security as contemplated by Section 2.01.
Interest Payment Date
 
 
3
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
 
 means, with respect to Securities of a series, the first date on which the Securities of such series are originally issued under this Indenture.
Issue Date
 
 means such pledges, mortgages, security interests and other liens, including purchase money liens, on property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary which secure Funded Debt.
Liens
 
, when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, request for repayment or otherwise.
Maturity
 
 has the meaning set forth under Section 2.12(f).
Members
 
 means any indebtedness for money borrowed or indebtedness evidenced by a bond, note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness.
Obligation
 
 means the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
 means a certificate signed by two Officers of the Company, at least one of whom shall be the principal executive officer or principal financial officer of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers Certificate
 
 has the meaning set forth under Section 4.10.
OID
 
 means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02.
OID Security
 
 means a written opinion from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee.  The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
 
, when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
 
(i)     Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(ii)    Securities for whose payment or redemption money or Government Obligations as contemplated by Section 8.01 in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
 
 
4
 
(iii)   Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, (a) the principal amount of an OID Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02, (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a foreign currency or currencies shall be the Dollar equivalent, determined by the Company and set forth in an Officers Certificate on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an OID Security, the Dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in (a) above) of such Security, and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgees right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
 
 means any individual, corporation, company (including any limited liability company), association, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
 
, when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of such series are payable.
Place of Payment
 
 of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
 
 means Norfolk Southern Railway Company.
Principal Subsidiary
 
 means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind upon any indebtedness of the Principal Subsidiary acquired after the date any Securities are first issued if such Purchase Money Lien is for the purpose of financing, and does not exceed, the cost to the Company or any Subsidiary of acquiring the indebtedness of the Principal Subsidiary and such financing is effected concurrently with, or within 180 days after, the date of such acquisition.
Purchase Money Lien
 
 
5
 
 mean any right of payment from or on behalf of any obligor, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising, either directly or indirectly, from the financing by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company of property or services, monies due thereunder, security interests in the property and services financed thereby and any and all other related rights.
Receivables
 
 means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
 
 means, with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
 
, when used with respect to the Trustee, means any Vice President, any assistant Vice President, any trust officer or assistant trust officer or any assistant controller or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject, and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
 means each Subsidiary of the Company other than Securitization Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries of Securitization Subsidiaries.
Restricted Subsidiary
 
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
 or  has the meaning stated in the preamble of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Security
Securities
 
 means a Subsidiary of the Company (i) which is formed for the purpose of effecting one or more Securitization Transactions and engaging in other activities reasonably related thereto and (ii) as to which no portion of any indebtedness or any other obligations (a) is guaranteed by any Restricted Subsidiary, or (b) subjects any property or assets of any Restricted Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to any lien, other than pursuant to representations, warranties and covenants (including those related to servicing) entered into in the ordinary course of business in connection with a Securitization Transaction and inter-company notes and other forms of capital or credit support relating to the transfer or sale of Receivables or asset-backed securities to such Securitization Subsidiary and customarily necessary or desirable in connection with such transactions.
Securitization Subsidiary
 
 means any transaction or series of transactions that have been or may be entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with or reasonably related to a transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (i) a Securitization Subsidiary or (ii) any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables or asset-backed securities or interest therein (whether such Receivables or securities are then existing or arising in the future) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto, including, without limitation, all security interests in the property or services financed thereby, the proceeds of such Receivables or asset-backed
Securitization Transaction
 
 
6
 
securities and any other assets which are sold in respect of which security interests are granted in connection with securitization transactions involving such assets.
 
 means any Subsidiary that would be a Significant Subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the Commission.
Significant Subsidiary
 
 means, when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the payment of principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable, including pursuant to any mandatory redemption provision (but excluding any provision providing for the repurchase of such Security at the option of the holder thereof upon the happening of any contingency beyond the control of the issuer unless such contingency has occurred).
Stated Maturity
 
 means, in respect of any Person, corporation, company (including any limited liability company), association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which a majority of the total voting power of the Voting Stock is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by:
Subsidiary
 
(a)   such Person;
 
(b)   such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person; or
 
(c)   one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
 
Unless otherwise required by the context, Subsidiary shall refer to a Subsidiary of the Company.
 
  or  means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 9.03; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, Trust Indenture Act means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended, including any regulations promulgated thereunder.
Trust Indenture Act
TIA
provided
however
 
 means the Person named as the Trustee in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter Trustee shall mean each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, Trustee as used with respect to the Securities of any series means the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
 
, when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title vice president.
Vice President
 
 of any specified person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
 
7
 
 means, in respect of any Person, a Subsidiary with respect to which such Person owns, directly or indirectly, all of the Voting Stock.  Unless otherwise required by the context, Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall refer to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
SECTION 1.02.  
Other Definitions
.
 
 
SECTION 1.03.  
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
.  This Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA, which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.  The following TIA terms have the following meanings:
 
Commission means the SEC.
 
indenture securities means the Securities.
 
indenture security holder means a Holder.
 
indenture to be qualified means this Indenture.
 
indenture trustee or institutional trustee means the Trustee.
 
obligor on the indenture securities means the Company and any other obligor on the indenture securities.
 
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
SECTION 1.04.  
Rules of Construction
.  For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
 
8
 
SECTION 1.05.  
Acts of Holders
.  (a)  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the Act of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided is this Section.
 
(b)   The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgements of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority.  The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
(c)   At any time, the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Registrar.
 
(d)   Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
 
SECTION 2.01.  
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
.  The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is
 
 
9
 
unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more series in a total principal amount up to that authorized from time to time by or pursuant to relevant Board Resolutions or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, which shall specify:
 
(a)   the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from the Securities of all other series);
 
(b)   any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of that series pursuant to Section 2.06, Section 2.07, Section 2.09, Section 2.12, Section 3.07 or Section 9.05);
 
(c)   whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, as Global Securities or otherwise, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.12, and the initial Depositary for any Global Security or Securities of such series;
 
(d)   the date or dates (or manner of determining the same) on which the principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of the series is payable;
 
(e)   the rate or rates, or the method to be used in ascertaining the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable), at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest (if any), the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than that of a 360-day year of 12 30-day months, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the record date for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
(f)   if the trustee of the Securities of the series is other than the Trustee initially named in this Indenture or any successor thereto, the trustee of the Securities of the series;
 
(g)   the place or places where the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(h)   the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which, the price or
 
 
10
 
 
prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(i)   if denominated in Dollars, and in denominations other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(j)   if denominated in other than Dollars, the currency or currencies, including composite currencies, in which the Securities of the series are denominated, and the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
 
(k)   if other than the currency in which the Securities of the series are denominated, the currency or currencies, including composite currencies, in which payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(l)   if the amount of payments of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
 
(m)   if other than the full principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.02;
 
(n)   if convertible into Securities of another series, shares of capital stock or other securities of the Company, the terms upon which the Securities of the series will be convertible into Securities of such other series, shares of capital stock or other securities of the Company;
 
(o)   the right, if any, of the Company to redeem all or any part of the Securities of the series before Maturity and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed;
 
(p)   the provisions, if any, for the defeasance of the Securities of the series in whole or in part and any addition or change in the provisions related to satisfaction and discharge;
 
 
11
 
 
(q)   if other than or in addition to the events specified in Section 6.01, Events of Default with respect to the Securities of the series;
 
(r)   if other than or in addition to the events specified in Article IV, covenants with respect to the Securities of the series;
 
(s)   any conditions to any merger or consolidation of the Company in addition to those set forth in Article V;
 
(t)   any other terms of or relating to the Securities of the series; and
 
(u)   the form of any notice to be delivered to the Trustee with respect to any Security of the series.
 
All Securities of any particular series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture. Unless otherwise provided by a Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture with respect to the Securities of any series, the Company may from time to time, without notice to or consent of Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series, create and issue additional Securities of such series ranking pari passu in all respects and being identical in all respects (other than the issue date, issue price and the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Securities). Such additional Securities shall, unless otherwise provided by a Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture, be consolidated and form a single series with the Securities of such series and have the same terms as to status, redemption or otherwise as the Securities of such series.
 
The Trustee need not authenticate the Securities in any series if their terms impose on the Trustee duties in addition to those imposed on the Trustee by this Indenture. If the Trustee does authenticate any such Securities, the authentication will evidence the Trustees agreement to comply with any such additional duties.
 
Each Depositary for a Global Security in registered form shall, if required at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as a Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation.
 
SECTION 2.02.  
Execution, Authentication
and Delivery
.  (a)  An Officer (and for purposes of this Section 2.02, the term Officer shall include any Vice President of the Company authorized by the Board of Directors) shall sign the Securities on behalf of the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
 
(b)   If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Security, the Security shall be valid nevertheless.
 
 
12
 
(c)   At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such written order of the Company shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.  Such written order shall specify the amount of the Securities to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of Securities is to be authenticated, the name or names of the initial Holder or Holders and any other terms of the Securities of such series not otherwise determined.
 
(d)   A Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Security.  The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
(e)   The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent reasonably acceptable to the Company to authenticate the Securities.  Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so.  Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent.  An authenticating agent has the same rights as any Registrar, Paying Agent or agent for service of notices and demands.
 
(f)   If the form or terms of the Securities of a series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Section 2.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive (in addition to the documents required by Section 10.04), and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
 
 
13
 
(g)   If all the Securities of any series are not to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver an Officers Certificate and Opinion of Counsel at the time of issuance of each such Security, but such Officers Certificate and Opinion of Counsel shall be delivered at or before the time of issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued.
 
SECTION 2.03.  
Registrar and Paying Agent
.  (a)  The Company shall maintain an office or agency for each series of Securities in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the Registrar) and an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for payment (the Paying Agent).  The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange.  The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents.  The term Registrar includes any co-registrar and the term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent.
 
(b)   The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or Paying Agent not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA.  Such agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent.  The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any such agent.  If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07.  The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
 
(c)   The Company hereby initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
SECTION 2.04.  
Paying Agent To Hold Money in Trust
.  The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment.  If the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund.  The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent.  Upon complying with this Section 2.04, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money. Each Paying Agent shall otherwise comply with TIA  317(b).
 
SECTION 2.05.  
Holder Lists
.  The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders of each series of Securities and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of TIA  312(a).  If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of each series of Securities and the Company shall otherwise comply with the requirements of TIA  312(a).
 
 
14
 
 
SECTION 2.06.  
Transfer and Exchange
.  (a) Where Securities of a series are presented to the Registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if its requirements for such transaction are met.  To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrars request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment by a Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.09, 3.07 or 9.05).
 
(b)   Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Securities of any series for the period beginning 15 Business Days prior to the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
 
SECTION 2.07.  
Replacement Securities
.  (a) If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee or if the Holder of a Security claims that such Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security of the same series if the Holder satisfies the requirements of the Trustee.  Such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced.  The Company and the Trustee may charge a Holder for their expenses in replacing a Security.
 
(b)   Every replacement Security is an additional Obligation of the Company.
 
SECTION 2.08.  
Temporary Securities
.  Until definitive Securities of any series are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities.  Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities.  Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Securities and deliver them in exchange for temporary Securities.
 
SECTION 2.09.  
Cancellation
.  The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation.  The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or redemption.  The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, redemption or cancellation and will dispose of all cancelled Securities in accordance with its customary procedures unless the Company directs the Trustee to deliver canceled Securities to the Company.  The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has redeemed, paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
SECTION 2.10.  
Defaulted Interest
.  If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Securities of any series, the Company shall pay the defaulted interest (plus
 
 
15
 
interest on such defaulted interest to the extent lawful) in any lawful manner, in each case at the rate provided in the Securities of such series.  The Company may pay the defaulted interest to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date.  The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed any such special record date and payment date to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee and shall promptly mail to each Holder a notice that states the special record date, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest to be paid.
 
SECTION 2.11.  
Global Securities
.(a) .  A Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture shall establish whether the Securities of a series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities.
Terms of Securities
 
(b)   .  Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in Section 2.06 of this Indenture and in addition thereto, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to Section 2.06 of this Indenture for Securities registered in the names of Holders other than the Depositary for such Security or its nominee only if (i) the Company delivers to the Trustee a notice from the Depositary that (A) the Depositary is no longer willing or able to continue as depositary for any Global Security, or (B) the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act, and, in either case, the Company is unable to locate a qualified successor within 90 days, (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Securities in definitive form under this Indenture, or (iii) there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities.  Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, upon surrender by the Depositary of such Global Security, be exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct in writing in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security with like tenor and terms.  Except as provided in this Section 2.12(b), a Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such Depositary, by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Transfer and Exchange
 
(c)   .  Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Legend
 
(d)   .  The Depositary, as a Holder, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Acts which a Holder is entitled to give or take under this Indenture.
Acts of Holders
 
 
16
 
 
(e)   .  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Indenture, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01, payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on any Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Payments
 
(f)   .  Members of, or participants in, the Depositary (Members) shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary or by the Custodian under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar and any of their agents as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Registrar or any of their agents from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Members, the operation of customary practices of the Depositary governing the exercise of the rights of an owner of a beneficial interest in any Global Security.  The Holder of a Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Members and Persons that may hold interests through Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
Consents, Declaration and Directions
 
Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to such Securities. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related Global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from such Global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
 
SECTION 2.12.  
CUSIP Numbers
.  The Company in issuing the Securities may use CUSIP numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; , , that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any defect in the CUSIP number that appears on any Security, check, advice of payment or notice, and any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such notice shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP number(s).
provided
however
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  
Applicability of this Article
.  Securities of any series that are redeemable prior to their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms (except as otherwise specified in this Indenture for Securities of any series) and in accordance with this Article III.
 
 
17
 
 
SECTION 3.02.  
Notice to the Trustee
.  If the Company elects to redeem Securities of any series pursuant to this Indenture, it shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date and the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed.  The Company shall give the notice provided for in this Section 3.02 at least 45 days before the Redemption Date unless the Trustee consents to a shorter period.  Such notice shall be accompanied by an Officers Certificate from the Company stating that such redemption will comply with the provisions of this Indenture and of the Securities of such series. Any such notice may be canceled at any time prior to the mailing of such notice of such redemption to any Holder and shall thereupon be void and of no effect.
 
SECTION 3.03.  
Selection of Securities to Be Redeemed
.  If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, the Securities of such series to be redeemed either pro rata or by lot or by such other method that the Trustee considers fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series.  The Trustee shall make the selection from Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption.
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
For purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any of the Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount thereof which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
SECTION 3.04.  
Notice of Redemption
.  (a) At least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date of Securities, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at such Holders registered address.  The notice shall identify the Securities (including CUSIP number(s)) to be redeemed and shall state:
 
 
18
 
(b)   At the Companys written request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Companys name and at the Companys expense.  In such event, the Company shall provide the Trustee with the information required by this Section 3.04 at least 15 days prior to the date of the giving of the notice of redemption (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
 
SECTION 3.05.  
Effect of Notice of Redemption
.  Once notice of redemption is mailed, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice.  Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice, plus accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the related Interest Payment Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date). Failure to give notice or any defect in the notice to any Holder shall not affect the validity of the notice to any other Holder.
 
SECTION 3.06.  
Deposit of Redemption Price
.  By 10:00 a.m., New York City time on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the related Interest Payment Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date), on all Securities to be redeemed on that date other than Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption on that date which have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
If the Company complies with the preceding paragraph, then, unless the Company defaults in the payment of such Redemption Price, interest on the Securities to be redeemed will cease to accrue on and after the applicable Redemption Date, whether or not such Securities are presented for payment, and the Holders of such Securities shall have no further rights with respect to such Securities except for the right to receive the Redemption Price upon surrender of such Securities. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal, premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, accrued interest thereon shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate provided in such Securities or, in the case of OID Securities, such Securities yield to maturity.
 
 
19
 
SECTION 3.07.  
Securities Redeemed in Part
.  Upon surrender to the Paying Agent of a Security to be redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder (at the Companys expense) a new Security or Securities of the same series equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
 
 
SECTION 4.01.  
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.  The Company shall pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities of each series on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities of such series and in this Indenture. Principal, premium and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent (other than the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) holds by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on that date money deposited by the Company designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium and interest then due. Unless otherwise specified in the terms of a Security, if a payment date is not a Business Day at a Place of Payment, payment may be made at that Place of Payment on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period.
 
SECTION 4.02.  
Maintenance of Office or Agency
.  (a)  The Company will maintain or cause to be maintained in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. Unless otherwise designated by the Company by written notice to the Trustee, such office or agency shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
(b)   The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of any series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
 
SECTION 4.03.  
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
.  (a)  If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest
 
 
20
 
so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(b)   Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(c)   The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
 
(d)   The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
(e)   Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request (unless an abandoned property law designates another person) or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
 
SECTION 4.04.  
Corporate Existence
.  Subject to Article V, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to
 
 
21
 
preserve any such right or franchise or corporate existence of any of its Significant Subsidiaries if the Company shall determine that the preservation or retention thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders of Securities of any series.
 
SECTION 4.05.  
Maintenance of Properties
.  The Company will cause all properties deemed by the Company to be necessary or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in such condition, repair and working order and supplied with such equipment and will cause to be made such repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary in the performance of its business; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation and maintenance of any of such properties, or disposing of any of them, if such discontinuance or disposal is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary.
 
SECTION 4.06.  
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
.  The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, and, in each case, only if the failure to pay or discharge could be disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or otherwise.
 
SECTION 4.07.  
Limitations on Liens on Stock or Indebtedness of Principal Subsidiary
.  For so long as any Securities issued pursuant to this Indenture are Outstanding, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind, other than a Purchase Money Lien, upon any stock or indebtedness, whether owned on the date any Securities are first issued or thereafter acquired, of any Principal Subsidiary, to secure any Obligation (other than the Securities) of the Company, any Subsidiary or any other Person, without in any such case making effective provision whereby all of the Outstanding Securities shall be secured equally and ratably with such Obligation.  This Section shall not (i) apply to any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest on any stock or indebtedness of a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, (ii) restrict any other property of the Company or its Subsidiaries or (iii) restrict the sale by the Company or any Subsidiary of any stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary.
 
SECTION 4.08.  
Limitations on Funded Debt
.  (a)  For so long as any Securities issued pursuant to this Indenture are Outstanding, the Company shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to incur, issue, guarantee or create any Funded Debt unless, after giving effect thereto, the sum of the aggregate amount of all outstanding Funded Debt of the Restricted Subsidiaries would not exceed an amount equal to 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
 
22
 
(b)   This Section shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded from Funded Debt in any computation pursuant hereto, Funded Debt secured by: (i) Liens on real or physical property of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary; (ii) Liens on real or physical property existing at the time of acquisition thereof or incurred within 180 days of the time of acquisition thereof (including, without limitation, acquisition through merger or consolidation) by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (iii) Liens on real or physical property hereafter acquired (or constructed) by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and created prior to, at the time of, or within 270 days after such acquisition (including, without limitation, acquisition through merger or consolidation) (or the completion of such construction or commencement of commercial operation of such property, whichever is later) to secure or provide for the payment of all or any part of the purchase price (or the construction price) thereof; (iv) Liens in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; (v) Liens in favor of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, or any agency, department or other instrumentality thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or the provisions of any statute, (vi) Liens incurred or assumed in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to Section 103(a) of the Internal Revenue Code; (vii) Liens securing the performance of any contract or undertaking not directly or indirectly in connection with the borrowing of money, the obtaining of advances or credit or the securing of Funded Debt, if made and continuing in the ordinary course of business; (viii) Liens incurred (no matter when created) in connection with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary engaging in a leveraged or single-investor lease transaction; provided, however, that the instrument creating or evidencing any borrowings secured by such Lien will provide that such borrowings are payable solely out of the income and proceeds of the property subject to such Lien and are not a general obligation of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; (ix) Liens under workers compensation laws, unemployment insurance laws or similar legislation, or good faith deposits in connection with bids, tenders, contracts or deposits to secure public or statutory obligations of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or deposits of cash or obligations of the United States of America to secure surety and appeal bonds to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party or in lieu of such bonds, or pledges or deposits for similar purposes in the ordinary course of business, or Liens imposed by law, such as laborers or other employees, carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens and vendors Liens and Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with respect to which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary at the time shall be prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review and with respect to which it shall have secured a stay of execution pending such appeal or proceedings for review, or Liens for taxes not yet subject to penalties for nonpayment or the amount or validity of which is being in good faith contested by appropriate proceedings by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, or minor survey exceptions, minor encumbrances, easements or reservations of, or rights of others for, rights-of-way, sewers, electric lines, telegraph and telephone lines and other similar purposes, or zoning or other restrictions or Liens on the use of real properties, which Liens, exceptions, encumbrances, easements, reservations, rights and restrictions do not, in the opinion of the Company, in the aggregate materially detract from the value of said properties or materially impair their use in the operation of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries; (x) Liens incurred to finance construction, alteration or repair of any real or physical property and improvements thereto prior to or within 270 days after completion of such construction, alteration or repair; (xi) Liens incurred (no matter when created) in connection with a Securitization Transaction; (xii)
 
 
23
 
Liens on property (or any Receivable arising in connection with the lease thereof) acquired by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary through repossession, foreclosure or like proceeding and existing at the time of the repossession, foreclosure, or like proceeding; (xiii) Liens on deposits of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary with banks (in the aggregate, not exceeding $50 million), in accordance with customary banking practice, in connection with the providing by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of financial accommodations to any Person in the ordinary course of business; or (xiv) any extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of the foregoing.
 
SECTION 4.09.  
Statement as to Compliance
.  The  Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company a written statement signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company, which need not constitute an Officers Certificate, stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, that, to such Officers knowledge, the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which such Officers have knowledge and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take, if any, with respect thereto).
 
SECTION 4.10.  
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
.  If the Securities of any series are issued with original issue discount (OID) (other than OID), as defined under the Internal Revenue Code, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of OID (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities of such series as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such OID as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code.
de minimis
 
 
SECTION 5.01.  
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
.  The Company shall not (i) consolidate with or merge into any other Person; or (ii) sell, assign, transfer, convey, lease or otherwise dispose of all, or substantially all, of its assets, in one or more related transactions, to any Person, unless:
 
 
24
 
SECTION 5.02.  
Successor Person Substituted
.  Upon any consolidation or merger of the Company or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease or disposition of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor entity formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such consolidation, merger, sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, lease or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor entity had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, the predecessor entity shall be released from all obligations under this Indenture and the Securities.
 
 
SECTION 6.01.  
Events of Default
.
 Unless otherwise indicated for a particular series of Securities by a Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture hereto, wherever used herein with respect to a Security of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
 
25
 
 
A default under clause (3) or clause (4) shall not be an Event of Default with respect to a series of Securities until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series notify the Company and the Trustee of the default and the Company does not cure the default: (i) within 90 days after receipt of the notice in the case of clause (3) or (ii) within 10 days after receipt of the notice in the case of clause (4). The notice must specify the default, demand that it be remedied and state that the notice is a Notice of Default.
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after the Company first gains knowledge of the occurrence thereof, written notice in the form of an Officers Certificate of any Default or Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
 
26
 
SECTION 6.02.  
Acceleration
.  (a) If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount of (or, if the Securities of such series are OID Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms thereof), premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, on all the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
 
(b)   At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 6.03.  
Other Remedies
.  (a)  If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture.
 
 
27
 
(b)   The Trustee may maintain a proceeding with respect to the Securities of any series even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.  A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default with respect to such Securities.  No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy.  All available remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
SECTION 6.04.  
Waiver of Past Defaults
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of such Securities waive an existing Default with respect to the Securities of such series and its consequences except (i) a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on a Security of such series or (ii) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder of the Securities of such series.  When a Default is waived, it shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
 
SECTION 6.05.  
Control by Majority
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series (each series voting as a separate class) may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.  However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.01, that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability; , , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction.
provided
however
 
SECTION 6.06.  
Limitation on Suits
.  (a)  A Holder of a Security of any series may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of such series unless:
 
 
28
 
(b)   A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
 
SECTION 6.07.  
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
SECTION 6.08.  
Collection Suit by Trustee
.  If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.09.  
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
.  The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.10.  
Priorities
.  (a)  If the Trustee collects any money or property pursuant to this Article VI with respect to any series of Securities, it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
 
FIRST:  to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
 
SECOND:  to Holders of such Securities for amounts due and unpaid on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, respectively; and
 
THIRD:  to the Company.
 
(b)   The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10.  At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid.
 
SECTION 6.11.  
Undertaking for Costs
.  In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action
 
 
29
 
taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant.  This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series.
 
SECTION 6.12.  
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
.  The Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
SECTION 7.01.  
Duties of Trustee
.  (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in such exercise, as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Persons own affairs.
 
(b)   Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series:
 
(c)   The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
 
30
 
(d)   Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e)   The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. All money received by the Trustee shall, until applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities.
 
(f)   No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability.  The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request or demand of any Holders, unless the Holders have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(g)   Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct, affecting the liability of, or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section and to the provisions of the TIA.
 
SECTION 7.02.  
Rights of Trustee
.
 
(a)   The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person.  The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b)   Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel.  The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the Officers Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
 
(c)   The Trustee may act through agents or attorneys and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
(d)   The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;, , that the Trustees conduct does not constitute willful misconduct or negligence.
provided
however
 
(e)   The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to
 
 
31
 
any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder without negligence and in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
 
(f)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company, and the Trustee may conclusively rely thereon.
 
(g)   The permissive rights of the Trustee to do things enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty unless so specified herein.
 
(h)   The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references such Securities and this Indenture.
 
(i)   In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
(j)   The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
(k)   The Trustee shall not be required to give any bond or surety in respect of the performance of its powers and duties hereunder.
 
SECTION 7.03.  
Individual Rights of Trustee
.  The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.  Any Paying Agent or Registrar may do the same with like rights.  However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
 
SECTION 7.04.  
Trustees Disclaimer
.  The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Companys use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture, the Securities or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities, other than the Trustees certificate of authentication.
 
SECTION 7.05.  
Notice of Defaults
.  If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any series and if it is known by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of such Securities notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs.  Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security of any series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of such Securities.
 
 
32
 
SECTION 7.06.  
Reports by Trustee to Holders
.  (a)  Within 60 days after May 15 of each year beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, and for so long as Securities of any series remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA  313(a), if and to the extent required by such subsection.  The Trustee shall also comply with TIA  313(b).
 
(b)   A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Securities of any series shall be mailed by the Trustee to the Company and filed by the Trustee with the SEC and each exchange, if any, on which such Securities are listed in accordance with TIA  313(d).  The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee in writing whenever the Securities of any series become listed on any exchange and of any delisting thereof.
 
SECTION 7.07.  
Compensation and Indemnity
.  (a)  The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee.  The Trustees compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust.  The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services.  Such expenses shall include the reasonable and documented compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustees agents, counsel, accountants and experts.  The Company shall indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability, damages, claim or expense (including reasonable and documented fees and expenses of outside counsel) incurred by it in connection with the acceptance and administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder.  The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder unless the Company has been prejudiced thereby.  The Company shall defend the claim, and the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.  The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustees own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.  The Company need not pay for any settlement made by the Trustee without the Companys consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.  All indemnifications and releases from liability granted hereunder to the Trustee shall extend to its officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns.
 
(b)   To secure the Companys payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of, premium, if any, and interest with respect to Securities of any series.
 
(c)   The Companys payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.  When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) with respect to the Company, the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
SECTION 7.08.  
Replacement of Trustee
.  (a) A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustees acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.08.
 
 
33
 
(b)   The Trustee may resign and be discharged at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by so notifying the Company.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may remove the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company.  The Company shall remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of one or more series if:
 
(c)   If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series). Within one year after the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
(d)   A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company.  Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to each series of Securities for which it is acting as Trustee under this Indenture.  The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of the applicable series of Securities.  The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07.
 
(e)   If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(f)   If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of that series for at least six months may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(g)   Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Companys obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee with respect to expenses and liabilities incurred by it prior to such replacement.
 
 
34
 
SECTION 7.09.  
Successor Trustee by Merger
.  (a)  Subject to Section 7.10, if the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation or banking association, the successor corporation or banking association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee; provided, however, that in the case of a transfer of all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to another corporation, the transferee corporation expressly assumes all of the Trustees liabilities hereunder.
 
(b)   In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt such certificate of authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.
 
SECTION 7.10.  
Eligibility; Disqualification
.  The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a).  The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.  The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b); provided, however, that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
 
SECTION 7.11.  
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
.  The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b).  A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
 
SECTION 8.01.  
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
.  (a)  This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Request (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series, when:
 
 
35
 
(b)   Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee under Section 7.07 and, if money or Government Obligations shall have been deposited with and held by the Trustee pursuant to subclause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 8.02 and the last paragraph of Section 4.03, shall survive.
 
SECTION 8.02.  
Application of Trust Money
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4.03(e), all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.01 with respect
 
 
36
 
to the Securities of a series shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal, premium, if any, and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
 
SECTION 9.01.  
Without Consent of Holders
.  Unless otherwise indicated for a particular series by a Board Resolution or a supplemental indenture, notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities of one or more series without the consent of any Holder of such Securities in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee:
 
 
37
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a Board Resolution authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.06 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture and make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly and adversely affects the Trustees own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental indenture.
 
SECTION 9.02.  
With Consent of Holders
.  The Company may amend or supplement this Indenture and the Securities of a series with the written consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series affected by such amendment or supplement. Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental indenture, upon receipt by the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Securities as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.06 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture and make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly and adversely affects the Trustees own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each such series may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities of such series without notice to any Holder. However, with respect to a given Holder of such series affected thereby, an amendment, supplement or waiver, including a waiver pursuant to Section 6.04, may not, without such Holders consent:
 
 
38
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplement or amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
 
SECTION 9.03.  
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act of 1939
.  Every amendment to or supplement of this Indenture or the Securities of one or more series shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
 
SECTION 9.04.  
Revocation and Effect of Consents
.  A consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver by a Holder of a Security shall bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holders Security, even if notation of the consent is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to his Security or portion of the Security, provided that the Trustee must receive the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective.
 
After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder of such series affected thereby unless it makes a change described in clauses (1) through (6) of Section 9.02. In that case, the amendment, supplement or waiver shall bind each Holder of a Security who has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holders Security.
 
SECTION 9.05.  
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
.  If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of a Security of a series, the Trustee may require the Holder of the Security of such series to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Security of such series about the amendment, supplement or waiver and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determine, the Company in exchange for the Security of such series shall issue and the Trustee shall, upon the receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate a new Security of that series that reflects the amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Security of that series will not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver.
 
SECTION 9.06.  
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
  The Trustee shall execute any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article IX if the amendment, supplement or waiver does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. In signing such amendment, supplement or waiver the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment, supplement or waiver is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Company shall not sign an amendment or supplement unless authorized by an appropriate Board Resolution.
 
 
39
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01.  
Trust Indenture Act Controls
.  If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA 318(c), the imposed duties will control.
 
SECTION 10.02.  
Notices
.  (a)  Any notice, communication or Act shall be in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), facsimile or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others address:
 
(b)   The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
(c)   All notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if by facsimile; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
(d)   Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holder at the Holders address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
 
(e)   Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.  If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
 
40
 
(f)   In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service, or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impossible to mail any notice required by this Indenture, then such method of notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient mailing of such notice.
 
SECTION 10.03.  
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
.  Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities.  The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
SECTION 10.04.  
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
.  Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall, if requested by the Trustee, furnish to the Trustee:
 
SECTION 10.05.  
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
.  Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA  314(a)(4)) must comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and shall include:
 
SECTION 10.06.  
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
.  The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders.  The Registrar or the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
 
 
41
 
SECTION 10.07.  
Governing Law
; Waiver of Jury Trial
.  THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
SECTION 10.08.  
No Recourse Against Others
.  A director, officer, employee or stockholder of the Company or the Trustee, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or for any obligations of the Company or the Trustee under this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability.  The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of Securities.
 
SECTION 10.09.  
Successors
.  All agreements of the Company in this Indenture shall bind its successors.  All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors.
 
SECTION 10.10.  
Severability
. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
SECTION 10.11.  
Counterpart Originals
.  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture.  Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. The exchange of copies of this Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Indenture for all purposes.
 
SECTION 10.12.  
Table of Contents; Headings
.  The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
SECTION 10.13.  
Force Majeure
. In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
SECTION 10.14.  
U.S.A. Patriot Act
. The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is
 
 
42
 
required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee.  The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
 
 
43
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
44

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dated as of March 15, 2012 (the ), by and between Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation, as issuer (the ), and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee (the ).
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
First Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
 
 
, the Company executed and delivered the indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012, to the Trustee (the  and, as hereby amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, the ), to provide for the issuance of the Companys unsubordinated and unsecured debt securities to be issued in one or more series;
WHEREAS
Base
Indenture
Indenture
 
 
, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities under the Base Indenture to be known as its 3.000% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ), the form and substance and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS
Notes
 
 
, the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture and the issuance of the Notes have been authorized by a Board Resolution and the Board of Directors has authorized the proper officers of the Company to execute and deliver any and all appropriate documents necessary or appropriate to effect such issuance;
WHEREAS
 
 
, this First Supplemental Indenture is being entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS
 
 
, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this First Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS
 
 
, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the Trustee, in accordance with its terms, and to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company, have been performed, and the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects;
WHEREAS
 
 
, in consideration of the premises and the purchase and acceptance of the Notes by the Holders thereof and other valuable consideration receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company, and for the purpose of setting forth, as provided in the Base Indenture, the form, terms and conditions of the Notes, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SECTION 1.01.  
Definitions
. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used but not defined herein or in the recitals above have the respective meanings set forth in the Base Indenture. The following additional terms are hereby established for purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture and shall have the meaning set forth in this First Supplemental Indenture only for purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
  has the meaning set forth in the recitals above.
Notes
 
  means, with respect to the Notes, on any day within the 60-day period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any Rating Agency) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control; or (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention by the Company to effect a Change of Control, the Notes are rated below investment grade by each and every Rating Agency. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Companys request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Ratings Event).
Below Investment Grade Ratings Event
 
  means the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person or group (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the )), other than the Company or its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Companys Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Companys Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed measured by voting power rather than number of shares.
Change of Control
Exchange Act
 
  means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Ratings Event with respect to the Notes.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
 
  means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
 
  means a Security evidencing all or a part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series in accordance with Section 2.11 of the Base Indenture.
Global Note
 
 
2
 
 
 
  means, with respect to the payment of interest on the Notes, April 1 and October 1 of each year.
Interest Payment Date
 
  means, with respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa3 or better (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moodys); with respect to S&P, a rating of BBB- or better (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and, with respect to any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating.
investment grade
 
  means Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moodys Corporation, and its successors.
Moodys
 
  means (1) each of Moodys and S&P; and (2) if either of Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Companys control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
 
  means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
 
  of any specified person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The words herein, hereof, and hereunder and other words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. The rules of construction set forth in Section 1.04 of the Base Indenture shall apply to this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
 
 
 SECTION 2.01.  
Designation and Establishment
. Pursuant to the terms hereof and Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture, the Company hereby establishes a new series of Securities designated as the 3.000 Senior Notes due 2022 (the ). The series of Notes may be reopened, from time to time, for issuances of additional Securities of such series. Any such additional Securities shall have the same ranking, interest rate, Stated Maturity and other terms as the Notes.  Any such additional Securities, together with the Notes herein provided for, shall constitute a single series of Securities under the Indenture.
%
Notes
 
 SECTION 2.02.  
Form of the Notes
. The Notes shall be issued in substantially the form set forth in hereto.
Exhibit A
 
 
3
 
 
 SECTION 2.03.  
Principal Amount of the Notes
. The Notes shall be initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000.
 
 SECTION 2.04.  
Interest Rates; Stated Maturity
. The Notes issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture shall bear interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) from March 15, 2012 at the rate of 3.000% per annum payable semiannually in arrears; interest payable on each Interest Payment Date shall include interest accrued from March 15, 2012, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for; the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable are April 1 and October 1, commencing on October 1, 2012; and the record date for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date is the close of business on March 15 or September 15, as the case may be, next preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date. The Notes shall have a Stated Maturity of April 1, 2022.
 
 SECTION 2.05.  
No Sinking Fund
. No sinking fund is provided for the Notes.
 
 SECTION 2.06.  
Global Notes and Denomination of the Notes
. Upon the original issuance, the Notes shall be represented by one or more Global Notes.  The Company shall issue the Notes in minimum denominations of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof and shall deposit the Global Notes with the Trustee as Custodian for DTC in New York, New York, and register the Global Notes in the name of DTC or its nominee.
 
 SECTION 2.07.  
Optional Redemption
. The Notes are subject to redemption at the option of the Company as set forth in the form of Note attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
 
 SECTION 2.08.  
Change of Control Repurchase Event
. (a)  If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holders Notes at a repurchase price (the ) in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the Repurchase Date (defined below). Within 30 days following a Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Companys option, prior to a Change of Control, but after the public announcement of a Change of Control, the Company will mail, or cause to be mailed, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice (such offer the  and such date the ), which Repurchase Date will be a Business Day that is no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Repurchase Offer is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the Repurchase Date.
Repurchase Price
Repurchase Offer
Repurchase Date
 
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or
 (b)
 
 
4
 
 
regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflict.
 
On the Repurchase Date following a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 (c)
 
 
 
 
 
The Trustee will promptly mail, or cause the Paying Agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Notes, or portions of Notes, properly tendered the Repurchase Price for such Notes, or portions of Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered, as applicable; that each new Note  will be in a principal amount equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 (d)
provided
 
The Company will not be required to make a Repurchase Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. 
 (e)
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  
Application of First Supplemental Indenture
. Except as expressly provided herein, each and every term and condition contained in this First Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture shall apply only to the Notes established hereby and not to any other series of
 
 
5
 
 
 
Securities established under the Base Indenture. Except as specifically amended and supplemented by, or to the extent inconsistent with, this First Supplemental Indenture, the Base Indenture shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
 SECTION 3.02.  
Effective Date of First Supplemental Indenture
. This First Supplemental Indenture shall be effective upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
 
 SECTION 3.03.   
Counterparts
. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this First Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original of the First Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
 SECTION 3.04.  
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
. The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
 SECTION 3.05.  
Governing Law
. This First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
6
 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY NAMED BELOW OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY.  THIS NOTE IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (DTC), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE REGISTRAR SUCH CERTIFICATES AND OTHER INFORMATION AS SUCH REGISTRAR MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUSIP No. 655844BJ6
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $______________________________ as set forth on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases annexed hereto on April 1, 2022.
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1, commencing on October 1, 2012.
 
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15.
 
 
 
 
Additional provisions of this Global Note are set forth on the other side of this Global Note.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF
 
Dated:
 
U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
 
as Trustee, certifies that this is one of
the Global Notes referred to in the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum shown above.  The Company will pay interest semiannually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing October 1, 2012.  Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from March 15, 2012.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal at the rate per annum borne by the Notes, and it shall pay interest on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by the Notes to the extent lawful.
Company
 
 
The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are Holders at the close of business on March 15 or September 15, as the case may be,next preceding the Interest Payment Date even if Notes are canceled after the record date and on or before the Interest Payment Date.  Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments.  The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.  Payments in respect of the Notes represented by a Global Note (including principal, premium, if any, and interest) will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depository.  The Company will make all payments in respect of a definitive Note (including principal, premium, if any, and interest) by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof; , , that payments on the Notes may also be made, in the case of a Holder of at least $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such Holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 30 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee may accept in its discretion).
 
provided
however
 
 
Initially, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, a national banking association (the ), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar.  The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice.  The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company issued the Notes under a Base Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (together the ), between the Company and the Trustee.  The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture (the ).  Terms defined in the Indenture and not defined in the Notes have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
Indenture
U.S.C.
TIA
 
The Notes are unsubordinated, unsecured obligations of the Company.  This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Indenture initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000.  The Notes include such $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes and an unlimited aggregate principal amount of additional Notes that may be issued under the Indenture.  Such Notes and such additional Notes will be treated as a single series and class of Securities under the Indenture.  The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries to, among other things, create or incur Liens, consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, transfer, assign, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
 
The Notes will be redeemable as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Company as set forth in this paragraph 5.  If the Notes are redeemed prior to the date that is three months prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, the Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Yield plus 20 basis points, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
 
If the Notes are redeemed on or after the date that is three months prior to the Stated Maturity, the Redemption Price for the Notes to be redeemed will equal 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date.
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Stated Maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Yield will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if
Treasury Yield
 
 
2
 
such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield-to-maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price of such Redemption Date. The Treasury Yield will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity most comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
 means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means (A) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
  means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and their respective successors; , , that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York, New York (a ) or otherwise fails to provide a Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
 means a quotation for a Comparable Treasury Issue provided by a Reference Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation
 
 
The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund.
 
 
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first-class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at his or her registered address.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000.  If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on all Notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or before the Redemption Date and certain other conditions are satisfied, on and after such Redemption Date interest ceases to accrue on such Notes (or such portions thereof) called for redemption.
 
 
3
 
 
 
The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture.  Upon any transfer or exchange, the Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Registrar need not register the transfer of or exchange any Notes selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Note to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Note not to be redeemed) or to transfer or exchange any Notes for a period of 15 Business Days prior to the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes to be redeemed or 15 Business Days before an Interest Payment Date.
 
 
The Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
 
 
If money for the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its written request unless an abandoned property law designates another Person.  After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company and not to the Trustee for payment.
 
 
Subject to certain conditions, the Company at any time may terminate its Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money, Government Obligations or a combination thereof for the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to the Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
 
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes affected, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Notes; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall without the consent of each Holder of Notes (i) reduce the amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (ii) reduce the rate of interest on any Notes; (iii) reduce the principal amount of or the premium, if any, on any Notes or change the Stated Maturity of any Notes; (iv) change the place, manner, timing or currency of payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Notes; or (v) make any change in the amendment and waiver provisions of such provisions.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes affected thereby, on behalf of all of the Holders of Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes of such series affected, that such waiver shall not affect the above provisions (i)  (v).
provided
however
provided
 
 
4
 
 
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Notes to be immediately due and payable.  Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default and shall result in the Notes being immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of such Events of Default without any further act of the Trustee or any Holder.
 
Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it.  Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind any declaration of acceleration and its consequences if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of principal, premium, if any, or interest that has become due solely because of the acceleration.
 
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA,  the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any Obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such Obligations or their creation.  By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, when a successor assumes all the Obligations of its predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the predecessor will be released from those Obligations.
 
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an authenticating agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
 
5
 
 
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED THEREBY AND HEREBY.
 
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note.
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
For value received ________________ hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ________________ (Please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints ____________________ as attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial principal amount of this Global Note is $______________.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
Three Commercial Place
Norfolk, Virginia 23510
 
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
As Vice President  Law of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the Company), I have delivered to you an opinion letter dated February 17, 2012 (the Opinion), in connection with the Companys Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-179569 (the Registration Statement), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on February 17, 2012. The Registration Statement was filed for the purpose of registering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), the Offered Securities (as defined in the Opinion).
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act and relates to the offer and sale of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.000% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Notes) to be issued under a Base Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (the Base Indenture), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (together with the Base Indenture, the Indenture), by and between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee (the Trustee).
In rendering the opinions stated below, I have, or an attorney working for me has, examined and relied upon the following: (i) the Registration Statement; (ii) the Indenture; (iii) the Prospectus dated February 17, 2012 (the Prospectus) included in the Registration Statement; and (iv) a copy of a Prospectus Supplement to the Prospectus dated March 12, 2012 (the Prospectus Supplement).  I have, or an
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
March 15, 2012
Page 2
attorney working for me has, also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified of such other documents, certificates and records as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions stated below.
In my examination, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such copies.
In making my examination of executed documents or documents to be executed, I have assumed that the parties thereto, other than the Company, had or will have the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, the execution and delivery by such parties of such documents and the validity and binding effect thereof on such parties.  As to any facts material to the opinions stated below which I did not independently establish or verify, I have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
I am a member of the Bar of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and I do not express any opinion with respect to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as Opined on Law). I do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined on Law or as to the effect of any such non-Opined on Law on the opinions stated below. The opinions stated below are based on laws in effect on the date hereof, which laws are subject to change with possible retroactive effect, and I disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable laws.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions stated herein, I am of the opinion that that when the Notes have been duly executed, delivered and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and the consideration for the Notes has been duly received
by the Company, all in the manner contemplated by the Registration Statement, the Notes will be legally issued and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
March 15, 2012
Page 3
limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally and by general principles of equity including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed by the Company as of the date hereof.  I also hereby consent to the reference to me under the caption Legal Matters in the Prospectus Supplement.  In giving this consent, I do not thereby admit that I am included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission.

Exhibit 5.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
Three Commercial Place
Norfolk, Virginia  23510
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Norfolk Southern Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the Company), in connection with the public offering of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 3.000% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Notes), issuable under the Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (the Base Indenture), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of March 15, 2012 (the First Supplemental Indenture and, together with the Base Indenture, the Indenture), between the Company and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as trustee (the Trustee).  On March 12, 2012, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the Underwriting Agreement), with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the Underwriters), relating to the sale by the Company to the Underwriters of the Notes.
 
 
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act).
 
 
In rendering the opinion stated herein, we have examined and relied upon the following:
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
March 15, 2012
Page 2
 
 
 
We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinion stated below.
 
 
In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures including endorsements, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies.  In making our examination of executed documents, we have assumed that the parties thereto, including the Company, had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and the execution and delivery by such parties of such documents, and the validity and binding effect thereof on such parties.  As to any facts relevant to the opinion stated herein that we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
 
 
The opinion set forth below is subject to the following further qualifications, assumptions and limitations:
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
March 15, 2012
Page 3
 
a)           the opinion stated herein is limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer, preference and other similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law);
 
 
b)           except to the extent expressly stated in the opinion contained herein, we do not express any opinion with respect to the effect on the opinion stated herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party to the Indenture with any laws, rules or regulations applicable to such party or (ii) the legal status or legal capacity of any such party;
 
 
c)           except to the extent expressly stated in the opinion contained herein, we do not express any opinion with respect to any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to any party to the Indenture or the transactions contemplated thereby solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any such party or any of its affiliates as a result of the specific assets or business operations of such party or such affiliates;
 
 
d)           we do not express any opinion as to the enforceability of Section 6.12 of the Indenture;
 
 
e)           to the extent that any opinion relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions contained in the Indenture or the Notes, the opinion stated herein is rendered solely in reliance upon New York General Obligations Law sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 and Rule 327(b) of New York Civil Practice Law and Rules and is subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by, in each case, the terms of such sections 5-1401 and 5-1402, as well as by principles of public policy, comity or constitutionality; and
 
 
f)           we have assumed that neither the execution and delivery by the Company of the Indenture and the Notes, as applicable, nor the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder: (i) conflicts or will conflict with the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) constitutes or will constitute a violation of, or a default under, any lease, indenture, instrument or other agreement to which the Company or its property is subject, (iii) contravenes or will contravene any order or decree of any governmental authority to which the Company or its property is subject, (iv) violates or will violate any law, rule, or regulation to which the Company or its property is subject or (v) requires the consent, approval, licensing or authorization of, or any filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority under any law, rule or regulation of any jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
Norfolk Southern Corporation
March 15, 2012
Page 4
 
We do not express any opinion with respect to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as Opined on Law).  We do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined on Law or as to the effect of any such non-Opined on Law on the opinion herein stated.  Insofar as the opinion expressed herein relates to matters governed by laws other than those set forth in the preceding sentence, we have assumed, without having made any independent investigation, that such laws do not affect the opinion set forth herein.  The opinion expressed herein is based on laws in effect on the date hereof, which laws are subject to change with possible retroactive effect.
 
 
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions stated herein, we are of the opinion that when the Notes have been duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
 
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 5.2 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K being filed on the date hereof, and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.  We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption Legal Matters in the prospectus supplement dated March 12, 2012 and filed with the Commission.  In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations.  This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable laws.
 
 
 


