Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MFRs Minimum filing requirements mortgage FPLs Mortgage and Deed of Trust dated as of January 1, 1944, as supplemented and amended mw Megawatt(s) Note Note to Consolidated Financial Statements NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Policy Act Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 O&M expenses Other operations and maintenance expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income PMI FPL Energy Power Marketing, Inc. Public Counsel State of Florida Office of Public Counsel PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended qualifying facilities Non utility power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying facility under the PURPA Reform Act Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ROE Return on common equity RTOs Regional transmission organizations SJRPP St. Johns River Power Park storm fund Storm and Property Insurance Reserve Fund SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, FPL Group and FPL (collectively, the Company) are hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of the Company in this combined Form 10 K, in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimated, projection, outlook) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward looking. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanie d by, the following important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Any forward looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Some important factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements include changes in laws or regulations, including the PURPA and the Holding Company Act, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the FERC, the FPSC and the NRC, with respect to allowed rates of return including but not limited to ROE and equity ratio limits, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs). The business and profitability of the Company are also influenced by economic and geographic factors including political and economic risks, changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies, weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), population growth rates and demographic patterns, competition for retail and wholesale customers, availability, pricing and transportation of fuel and other energy commodities, market demand for energy, changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation or in accounting standards, unanticipated delays or changes in costs for capital projects, unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures, capital market conditions, competition for new energy development opportunities and legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil, such as environmental, or criminal) and settlements. All such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties which may materially affect actual results, and are beyond the control of the Company. PART I Item 1. Business FPL GROUP FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the Holding Company Act. It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida. FPL Groups principal subsidiary, FPL, is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. FPL Group Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the capital stock and provides funding for the operating subsidiaries other than FPL. The business activities of these operating subsidiaries primarily consist of FPL Energys non rate regulated power projects. For financial information regarding FPL Groups business segments, see Note 16. At December 31, 2001, FPL Group and its subsidiaries employed 10,992 persons. FPL Group is exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the Holding Company Act on the basis that FPL Groups and FPLs businesses are predominantly intrastate in character and carried on substantially in a single state in which both are incorporated. FPL OPERATIONS General. FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group. FPL supplies electric service to a population of nearly eight million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. During 2001, FPL served approximately 3.9 million customer accounts. The percentage of operating revenues by customer class were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Residential 56% 55% 55% Commercial 38% 36% 37% Industrial 3% 3% 3% Other, including the provision for retail rate refund and the net change in unbilled revenues 3% 6% 5% 100% 100% 100% Regulation. FPLs retail operations provided approximately 99% of FPLs 2001 operating revenues. Such operations are regulated by the FPSC which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC in various respects, including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. FPLs nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction and operation of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and substations, noise and aesthetics, solid waste and other environmental matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Capital expenditures required to comply with environmental laws and regulations for 2002 04 are included in FPLs projected capital expenditures set forth in Item 1. Business FPL Operations Capital Expenditures and are not material. FPL currently holds 173 franchise agreements with varying expiration dates to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida. FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. Retail Ratemaking. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms. The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPLs investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). The rate of return on rate base approximates FPLs weighted average cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and preferred stock and an allowed ROE. The FPSC monitors FPLs ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC. The FPSC does not provide assurance that the allowed ROE will be achieved. Base rates are determined in rate proceedings, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC, Public Counsel or a substantially affected party. FPLs current rate agreement, which became effective April 15, 1999 and expires on April 14, 2002, provides for a $350 million reduction in annual revenues from retail base operations allocated to all customers on a cents per kilowatt hour basis. Additionally, the agreement sets forth a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. For the twelve month period ending April 14, 2002, the first threshold is $3.5 billion and the second threshold is $3.656 billion. Under the rate agreement, the FPSC allowed FPL to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was requi red to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets. This depreciation program replaced a revenue based special amortization program. See Note 1 Revenue and Rates and Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. The rate agreement also lowered FPLs authorized regulatory ROE range to 10% 12%. During the term of the agreement, the achieved ROE may from time to time be outside the authorized range, and the revenue sharing mechanism described above is specified to be the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. For purposes of calculating ROE, the agreement establishes a cap on FPLs adjusted equity ratio of 55.83%. The adjusted equity ratio reflects a discounted amount for off balance sheet obligations under certain long term purchased power contracts. Finally, included in the rate agreement are provisions which limit depreciation rates and accruals for nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs to the then approved levels and limit amounts recoverable under the environmental clause during the term of the rate agreement. See Managements Discussion Results of Operations. On March 22, 2002 the FPSC approved an agreement signed an agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates that, among other things, provides for an additional $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues. The new rate agreement resolves all matters in FPLs base rate proceeding and will be effective April 15, 2002 through December 31, 2005. The new rate agreement is subject to approval by the FPSC. For additional information regarding the new rate agreement, see Note 18 Base Rate Proceeding. Fuel costs are recovered through levelized charges per kwh established pursuant to the fuel clause and totaled $2.9 billion in 2001. These charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. See Managements Discussion Results of Operations and Note 1 Regulation. Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered through the capacity clause and base rates. In 2001, $468 million was recovered through the capacity clause. Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled $77 million in 2001 and are recovered through the conservation clause. Costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 are recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. The current rate agreement limited recovery under this clause to $6.4 million in 2001, with no further amounts recoverable during the remaining term of the agreement. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. Competition. The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive pressure. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2001, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that issued orders designed to deregulate the production and sale of electricity. By allowing customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when m arket based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. In 2000, the Governor of Florida signed an executive order creating the Energy 2020 Study Commission to propose an energy plan and strategy for Florida. The commission chose to split the energy study between wholesale and retail competition. In January 2001, the commission issued an interim report containing a proposal for restructuring Floridas wholesale electricity market, and no action was taken in the 2001 legislative session, which ended in May 2001. In December 2001, the commission issued a final report that recommended the removal of statutory barriers to entry for merchant plants and, according to the report, provides a discretionary transition to a "level playing field" for all generating assets. Under the commissions proposal, investor owned utilities such as FPL could, at their discretion, transfer or sell their existing generating assets. The utility would have the right to six year cost based transition contracts to commit the capacity of assets sold or transferred back to the utili ty. Transfers to affiliates would be at net book value. Gains on sales of existing generating assets within the transition contract period would be shared with customers. Any losses would be absorbed by the utilitys shareholders. The load serving utilities would acquire new capacity through competitive bidding (which would be required if acquired from affiliates), negotiated contracts or from the short term (spot) market. Transmission assets could be transferred (at net book value) to, or operated by, a FERC approved RTO. The final report recommends no change to the retail competition structure until an effective competitive wholesale market has been developed. The commissions proposal may be addressed in the legislative session which takes place from January through March 2002, or in a subsequent session. In addition, the FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In November 2001, the FERC issued an order providing guidance on how the FERC will proceed with the RTO development. The issues of scope and governance will be addressed within individual RTO dockets, after consultation with the state utility commissions. The issues of standardization of tariffs and market design will be addressed in a separate rulemaking docket. With regard to the operational deadline of the RTOs initially set for December 15, 2001, the FERC, in consultation with the state utility commissions, will set revised timelines in each of the individual RTO dockets. In March 2002, FPL filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own the transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In addition, the FPSC urged the utilities to continue participation in discussions with the FERC initiated in mid 2001 regarding the creation of a single RTO for the Southeast region of the United States, but did not recommend them joining it now. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. System Capability and Load. FPLs resources for serving summer load as of December 31, 2001 consisted of 18,871 mw, of which 16,619 mw are from FPL owned facilities (see Item 2. Properties Generating Facilities) and 2,252 mw are obtained through purchased power contracts. See Note 15 Contracts. In 2000, with the FPSCs approval, FPL and two other Florida utilities voluntarily adopted a 20% reserve margin target to be achieved by the summer of 2004. This reserve margin target will be achieved through the combination of output from FPLs generating units, purchased power contracts and load control programs. In 2002, FPL will continue its construction program to meet increased customer demand. FPL expects to complete the repowering of its Fort Myers steam units and one of its steam units at the Sanford site, which will add approximately 1,100 mw by mid 2002. FPL also expects to complete the repowering of another unit at Sanford in late 2002, add two new gas fired combustion turbines at its Fort Myers site in 2003 and expand its Martin and Manatee sites, subject to approval under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act, to add approximately 3,300 mw of natural gas combined cycle generation by mid 2005. These actions, plus other changes to FPLs existing units and purchased power contracts, are expected to increase FPLs net generating capability by approximately 8,500 mw by 2011. Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. However, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPLs service territory. During the summer of 2001, FPL set two all time records for energy peak demand; 18,354 mw on July 30 and 18,754 mw on August 16. Adequate resources were available at the time of the peaks to meet customer demand. Capital Expenditures. FPLs capital expenditures totaled approximately $1.1 billion in 2001, $1.3 billion in 2000 and $924 million in 1999. Capital expenditures for the 2002 04 period are expected to be $4.4 billion, including $1.3 billion in 2002. This estimate is subject to continuing review and adjustment, and actual capital expenditures may vary from this estimate. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources. Nuclear Operations. FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie. The operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively. The operating licenses for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 expire in 2016 and 2023, respectively. FPL filed applications for 20 year license extensions with the NRC for the Turkey Point units in 2000 and in 2001 for the St. Lucie units. The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. A condition of the operating license for each unit requires an approved plan for decontamination and decommissioning. FPLs current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of the Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Current plans call for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginni ng in 2016 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 beginning in 2023. See estimated cost data in Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant. During scheduled nuclear refueling outages for Turkey Point Unit No. 3 and St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during the fourth quarter of 2001, FPL conducted visual inspections of the reactor pressure vessel head penetration nozzles in response to a bulletin issued by the NRC on August 3, 2001. The NRC issued the bulletin to all pressurized water reactor licensees, including FPL, as a result of recent discoveries of cracked and leaking penetration nozzles in the top of certain reactor pressure vessel heads at facilities owned by other utilities. The inspections revealed no problems with the reactor vessel head at Turkey Point Unit No. 3 or St. Lucie Unit No. 2. Inspections at FPLs other two nuclear units are scheduled to be performed during their next scheduled refueling outages in 2002. Fuel. FPLs generating plants use a variety of fuels. See Item 2. Properties Generating Facilities and Note 15 Contracts. The diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve an economical fuel mix. FPL has four firm transportation contracts in place with FGT that together will satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation of its existing units and those units currently under construction. The four existing contracts expire in 2005, 2015, 2021 and 2022, but each can be extended at FPLs option. To the extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from FGT based on pipeline availability. FPL has several short and medium term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPLs anticipated needs for natural gas. The remainder of FPLs gas requirements are purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in SJRPP Units Nos. 1 and 2, long term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel needs for those units. All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long term contracts. The remaining fuel requirements will be obtained in the spot market. FPLs oil requirements are obtained under short and long term contracts and in the spot market. FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. Currently, FPL is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the DOE. See Note 1 Nuclear Fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. Through December 2001, FPL has paid approximately $449 million in such fees to the DOEs nuclear waste fund. The DOE did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. In 1997, a court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the DOE could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the DOEs failure to perform its obligations. In 1998, FPL filed a lawsuit aga inst the DOE seeking damages caused by the DOEs failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPLs nuclear power plants. The matter is pending. In the interim, FPL is investigating other alternatives to provide adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel. Based on current projections, FPL will lose its ability to store spent fuel on site for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in 2005, St. Lucie Unit No. 2 in 2007, Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in 2009 and Turkey Point Unit No. 4 in 2011. In addition, degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools at St. Lucie Unit No. 1 and Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. FPL is pursuing various approaches to expanding spent fuel storage at the sites, including increasing rack space in its existing spent fuel pools and or developing the capacity to store spent fuel in dry storage containers. The dry storage containers would be either located at FPLs nuclear pla nt sites or at a facility operated by Private Fuel Storage, LLC (PFS) in Utah. PFS is a consortium of eight utilities seeking to license, construct and operate an independent spent fuel storage facility. FPL joined the consortium in May 2000. PFS has filed a license application with the NRC and hearings on the application are ongoing. Energy Marketing and Trading. EMT, a division of FPL, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPLs use in power generation and sells excess gas and electric power. EMT also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales and purchases. Substantially all of the results of EMTs activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 5. Electric and Magnetic Fields. In recent years, public, scientific and regulatory attention has been focused on possible adverse health effects of EMF. These fields are created whenever electricity flows through a power line or an appliance. Several epidemiological (i.e., statistical) studies have suggested a linkage between EMF and certain types of cancer, including childhood leukemia and adult lymphoma associated with occupational exposure; other studies have been inconclusive, contradicted earlier studies or have shown no such linkage. Neither these epidemiological studies nor clinical studies have produced any conclusive evidence that EMF does or does not cause adverse health effects. In 1999, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, at the culmination of a five year federally supported research effort, pronounced that the scientific support for an EMF cancer link is marginal and concluded that the probability that EMF exposure is truly a health hazard is small but can not be completely discounted. In 2001, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) conducted an evaluation of power frequency EMF and cancer; it classified power frequency magnetic fields as "possibly carcinogenic" based on an association with childhood leukemia reported in some epidemiology studies. The IARC did not conclude that power frequency EMF cause or contribute to the development of childhood leukemia or any other cancer. FPL is in compliance with the FDEP regulations regarding EMF levels within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines. Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. It is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. Employees. FPL had 9,757 employees at December 31, 2001. Approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that will expire October 31, 2004. FPL ENERGY OPERATIONS FPL Energy. FPL Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate FPL Groups existing unregulated energy related operations. FPL Energy owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric generating facilities. At December 31, 2001, FPL Energy had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capacity of 5,063 mw. Generation capacity spans various regions thereby reducing seasonal volatility on a portfolio basis. At December 31, 2001, the percentage of capacity by region is 36% Central, 28% Northeast, 20% Mid Atlantic and 16% West. Fuel sources for these projects are 46% natural gas, 28% wind, 15% oil, 7% hydro and 4% other. FPL Energy is actively involved in managing more than 84% of its projects, which represents approximately 98% of the net generating capacity in which FPL Energy has an ownership interest. This active role is expected to continue as opportunities in the unregulated generation market are pursued. As a result of FPL Energys continued growth, capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $1.977 billion, $507 million and $1.540 billion in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. In addition, FPL Energy has announced or is currently constructing eight plants with a total capacity of approximately 5,000 mw which will bring FPL Energys total portfolio to approximately 10,000 mw by the end of 2004. The 5,000 mw does not include any wind projects; however, given the recent two year extension of the federal production tax credit, FPL Energy expects to add 1,000 to 2,000 mw of new wind generation by the end of 2003. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio growth will come from a mix of development and asset acquisitions. Currently, approximately 19% of FPL Energys net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the PURPA. Qualifying facility electricity may be generated from hydropower, wind, solar, geothermal, fossil fuels, biomass or waste product combustion. Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from the application of the Holding Company Act, many provisions of the Federal Power Act, and state laws and regulations respecting rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. FPL Energy also has ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined in the Holding Company Act. These projects represent approximately 81% of FPL Energys net generating capacity. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electric energy to wholesale customers. They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. While projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale gen erator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. Deregulation of the electric utility market presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets that are being divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Current wholesale market trends indicate the potential of an oversupply of generation and lower demand as a result of a weakening economy, which would likely result in lower wholesale electricity prices. FPL Energy believes that favorable conditions continue to exist in certain areas of the country and plans to move forward with the projects currently under construction. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by selling a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants through power sales agreements. In 2001, approximately 86% of FPL Energys capacity was under contract. FPL Energy has approximately 8 0% of its 2002 capacity and more than 50% of its 2003 capacity currently under contracts which expire in 2002 27. As competitive wholesale markets become more accessible to other generators, obtaining power sales agreements will become a progressively more competitive process. FPL Energy expects that as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. On March 1, 2002, FPL Energys projects received the majority of the payments due from California utilities for electricity sold from November 2000 through March 2001, which had been past due. FPL Groups remaining earnings exposure relating to past due receivables from these California utilities is not material. PMI, a subsidiary of FPL Energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. PMI procures natural gas and oil for FPL Energys use in power generation and sells excess gas and electric power. PMI also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of FPL Energys power generation assets. To a lesser extent, PMI engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. The results of PMIs activities are recognized in FPL Energys operating results. See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 Energy Trading and Note 5. FPL Energy had 1,054 employees at December 31, 2001. Approximately 13% of the employees are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL Energy that expires on February 28, 2003. OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet was formed in January 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Groups fiber optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations. Accordingly, in January 2000, FPLs existing fiber optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet leases wholesale fiber optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers, primarily telephone, cable television, internet and other telecommunications companies. At December 31, 2001, FPL FiberNets network consists of approximately 2,500 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout Florida. During 2001, FPL FiberNet invested approximately $128 million, primarily to expand its network within Floridas metropolitan areas. Over the next three years, FPL FiberNet plans to continue this expansion by investing a total of approximately $100 million. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS(a) Name Age Position Effective Date Dennis P. Coyle 63 General Counsel and Secretary of FPL Group June 1, 1991 General Counsel and Secretary of FPL July 1, 1991 K. Michael Davis 55 Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL Group May 13, 1991 Vice President, Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL July 1, 1991 Moray P. Dewhurst 46 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL Group July 17, 2001 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL July 19, 2001 Paul J. Evanson 60 President of FPL January 9, 1995 Ronald F. Green 54 President of FPL Energy December 3, 2001 Lewis Hay III 46 President and Chief Executive Officer of FPL Group June 11, 2001 Chairman of the Board of FPL Group January 1, 2002 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of FPL January 1, 2002 Lawrence J. Kelleher 54 Vice President, Human Resources of FPL Group May 13, 1991 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of FPL July 1, 1999 Robert L. McGrath 48 Treasurer of FPL Group and FPL January 11, 2000 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL Energy June 6, 2000 Armando J. Olivera 52 Senior Vice President, Power Systems of FPL July 1, 1999 Antonio Rodriguez 59 Senior Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPL July 1, 1999 John A. Stall 47 Senior Vice President, Nuclear Division of FPL June 4, 2001 (a) Executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. Except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. The business experience of the executive officers is as follows: Mr. Dewhurst was senior partner of Dean & Company, a management consulting and investment firm that he co founded in 1993. Mr. Green was president and chief executive officer of Duke Engineering and Services, Inc., a technical services supplier to the energy industry, and president and chief operating officer of Duke Solutions, Inc., an energy services and energy commodity supply company, from April 1999 to November 2001. He was president of power generation for an affiliate of Shell Oil Company from June 1998 to March 1999. Mr. Green was president and chief executive officer of Fluor Daniel Hanford, a nuclear waste remediation contractor for the DOE, from February 1998 to May 1998. Prior to that, he was president of Power Fluor Daniel, Inc., a designer, builder and provider of maintenance services to the electric sector. Mr. Hay was president of FPL Energy from March 2000 to December 2001. From July 1999 to March 2000, he was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL. Prior to that, Mr. Hay was executive vice president and chief financial officer of U.S. Foodservice, a food service distributor. Mr. Kelleher was senior vice president, human resources of FPL from July 1991 to July 1999. Mr. McGrath was assistant treasurer of FPL Group and FPL from February 1998 to January 2000. Prior to that, Mr. McGrath was vice president and chief financial officer of ESI Energy, Inc., an affiliate of FPL Group. Mr. Olivera was vice president, distribution of FPL from February 1997 to July 1999. Mr. Rodriguez was vice president, power delivery of FPL from Februar y 1997 to July 1999. Mr. Stall was plant vice president at St. Lucie from 1996 to June 2001. Item 2. Properties FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate for their operations. At December 31, 2001, the electric generating, transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 44%, 13%, 37% and 6%, respectively, of FPLs gross investment in electric utility plant in service. Generating Facilities. At December 31, 2001, FPL Group had the following generating facilities: Facility Location No. of Units Fuel Net Capability (mw)(a) FPL Steam turbines: Cape Canaveral Cocoa, FL 2 Oil/Gas 806 Cutler Miami, FL 2 Gas 213 Manatee Parrish, FL 2 Oil 1,619 Martin Indiantown, FL 2 Oil/Gas 1,613 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 4 Oil/Gas 1,240 Riviera Riviera Beach, FL 2 Oil/Gas 567 St. Johns River Power Park Jacksonville, FL 2 Coal/Petroleum Coke 254 (b) St. Lucie Hutchinson Island, FL 2 Nuclear 1,553 (c) Sanford Lake Monroe, FL 2 Oil/Gas 523 Scherer Monroe County, GA 1 Coal 658 (d) Turkey Point Florida City, FL 2 Oil/Gas 800 2 Nuclear 1,386 Combined cycle: Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 1 Gas 894 (e) Lauderdale Dania, FL 2 Gas/Oil 854 Martin Indiantown, FL 3 Gas 1,233 Putnam Palatka, FL 2 Gas/Oil 498 Combustion turbines: Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 12 Oil 636 Lauderdale Dania, FL 24 Oil/Gas 840 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 12 Oil/Gas 420 Diesel units: Turkey Point Florida City, FL 5 Oil 12 TOTAL 16,619 FPL Energy: East Northeast: Maine Various ME 9 Oil 755 Maine Various ME 89 Hydro 373 Investments in joint ventures MA, NJ 2 Gas 295 Total Northeast 1,423 Mid Atlantic: Doswell Ashland, VA 5 Gas 879 Marcus Hook 50 Marcus Hook, PA 1 Gas 50 Investments in joint ventures Various (f) Various 105 Total Mid Atlantic 1,034 West Central: Cerro Gordo Ventura, IA 55 Wind 42 Gray County Montezuma, KS 170 Wind 112 King Mountain Upton County, TX 214 Wind 278 Lake Benton II Ruthton, MN 138 Wind 104 Lamar Power Partners Paris, TX 2 Gas 990 Montfort Montfort, WI 20 Wind 30 Southwest Mesa McCamey, TX 107 Wind 75 Woodward Mountain McCamey, TX 242 Wind 160 Total Central 1,791 West: Stateline WA/OR border 399 Wind 263 Vansycle Helix, OR 38 Wind 25 Investments in joint ventures Various CA (g) Various 527 Total West 815 TOTAL 5,063 (a) Represents FPLs and FPL Energys net ownership interest in plant capacity. After including the 1,101 mw FPL expects to add by mid 2002, FPLs expected net capability for the summer of 2002 is approximately 17,720 mw. (b) Represents FPLs 20% ownership interest in each of SJRPP Units Nos. 1 and 2, which are jointly owned with the JEA. (c) Excludes Orlando Utilities Commissions and the FMPAs combined share of approximately 15% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2. (d) Represents FPLs approximately 76% ownership of Scherer Unit No. 4, which is jointly owned with the JEA. (e) Represents six gas combustion turbines in simple cycle operation as part of a repowering project. Plant is expected to be in combined cycle operation by June 2002. (f) Represents plants providing less than 50 mw each using fuel and technology such as gas and waste to energy. (g) Includes 1,448 units at a wind project (83 mw). The remaining 444 mw are provided by plants with less than 50 mw each using fuels and technologies such as solar, gas, geothermal, coal and petroleum coke. Transmission and Distribution. At December 31, 2001, FPL owned and operated 505 substations and the following electric transmission and distribution lines: Nominal Voltage Overhead Lines Pole Miles Trench and Submarine Cable Miles 500 kv 1,107 (a) 230 kv 2,304 31 138 kv 1,448 50 115 kv 671 69 kv 164 14 Less than 69kv 40,458 22,779 Total 46,152 22,874 (a) Includes approximately 75 miles owned jointly with the JEA. Character of Ownership. Substantially all of FPLs properties are subject to the lien of FPLs mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by FPL. The majority of FPL Groups principal properties are held by FPL in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions, none of which is of such a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties. FPL Energys Doswell generating facility is encumbered by liens against its assets securing bonds issued in July 2001. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 8. Some of FPLs electric lines are located on land not owned in fee but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained from owners of private property. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In November 1999, the Attorney General of the United States, on behalf of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Georgia Power Company and other subsidiaries of The Southern Company for certain alleged violations of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) provisions and the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) of the Clean Air Act. In May 2001, the EPA amended its complaint. The amended complaint alleges, among other things, that Georgia Power Company constructed and is continuing to operate Scherer Unit No. 4, in which FPL owns a 76% interest, without obtaining a PSD permit, without complying with NSPS requirements, and without applying best available control technology for nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides and particulate matter as required by the Clean Air Act. It also alleges that unspecified major modifications have been made at Scherer Unit No. 4 that require its compliance with the aforemen tioned Clean Air Act provisions. The EPA seeks injunctive relief requiring the installation of best available control technology and civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each violation from an unspecified date after June 1, 1975 through January 30, 1997, and $27,500 per day for each violation thereafter. Georgia Power Company has answered the amended complaint, asserting that it has complied with all requirements of the Clean Air Act, denying the plaintiffs allegations of liability, denying that the plaintiff is entitled to any of the relief that it seeks and raising various other defenses. In June 2001, the federal district court stayed discovery and administratively closed the case pending resolution of the EPAs motion for consolidation of discovery in several Clean Air Act cases that was filed with a Multi District Litigation (MDL) panel. In August 2001, the MDL panel denied the motion for consolidation. In September 2001, the EPA moved that the federal district court reopen this case for pu rposes of discovery. Georgia Power Company has opposed that motion asking that the case remain closed until the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals rules on the Tennessee Valley Authoritys (TVA) appeal of an EPA administrative order relating to legal issues that are also central to this case. In January 2002, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals determined that it has jurisdiction to review the EPAs administrative order and will now move to the merits of the TVAs appeal. The federal district court has not yet ruled upon the EPAs motion to reopen. In June 2000, Southern California Edison Company (SCE) filed with the FERC a Petition for Declaratory Order (petition) asking the FERC to apply the November 1999 decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Southern California Edison Co. v. FERC, to all qualifying small power production facilities, including the SEGS VIII and SEGS IX facilities owned by Luz Solar Partners Ltd., VIII and Luz Solar Partners Ltd., IX (collectively, the partnerships), indirectly owned in part by FPL Energy, which have power purchase agreements with SCE. The federal circuit court of appeals decision invalidated the FERCs so called essential fixed assets standard, which permitted uses of fossil fuels by qualifying small power production facilities beyond those expressly set forth in PURPA. The petition requests that the FERC declare that qualifying small power production facilities may not continue to use fossil fuel under the essential fixed assets standard and that they may be required to mak e refunds with respect to past usage. In August 2000, the partnerships filed motions to intervene and protest before the FERC, vigorously objecting to the position taken by SCE in its petition. The partnerships contend that they have always operated the solar facilities in accordance with certification orders issued to them by the FERC. Such orders were neither challenged nor appealed at the time they were granted, and it is the position of the partnerships that the orders remain in effect. Briefing in this proceeding is complete and the parties are currently awaiting a final determination from the FERC. In June 2001, SCE and the partnerships entered into an agreement that provides, among other things, that SCE and the partnerships will take all necessary steps to suspend or stay, during a specified period of time, the proceeding initiated by the petition. The agreement is conditioned upon, among other things, completion of SCEs financing plan. The agreement provides that, if the conditions of the agr eement are satisfied, then SCE and each of the partnerships agree to release and discharge each other from any and all claims of any kind arising from either parties performance under the power purchase agreements. Such a release would include release of the claim made by SCE in the petition for refunds with respect to past usage. The conditions of the agreement were fully satisfied in March 2002. In November 2001, J. W. and Ernestine M. Thomas, Chester and Marie Jenkins, and Ray Norman and Jack Teague, as Co Personal Representatives on behalf of the Estate of Robert L. Johns, filed suit against FPL Group, FPL, FPL FiberNet, FPL Group Capital and FPL Investments, Inc. in the Circuit Court for Suwanee County, Florida. This action is purportedly on behalf of all property owners in Florida (excluding railroad and public rights of way) whose property is encumbered by easements in favor of defendants, and on whose property defendants have installed or intend to install fiber optic cable which defendants currently lease, license or convey or intend to lease, license or convey for non electric transmission or distribution purposes. The lawsuit alleges that FPLs easements do not permit the installation and use of fiber optic cable for general communication purposes. The plaintiffs have asserted claims for unlawful detainer, unjust enrichment and constructive trust and seek injunctive relief and compensatory damages. In December 2001, all defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint for, among other things, the failure to state a valid cause of action. On January 15, 2002, Roy Oorbeek and Richard Berman filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against FPL Group (as an individual and nominal defendant); its current and certain former directors; and certain current and former officers of FPL Group and FPL, including James L. Broadhead, Lewis Hay III, Dennis P. Coyle, Paul J. Evanson and Lawrence J. Kelleher. The lawsuit alleges that the proxy statements relating to shareholder approval of FPL Groups Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and FPL Groups proposed, but unconsummated, merger with Entergy were false and misleading because they did not affirmatively state that payments made to certain officers under FPL Groups LTIP upon shareholder approval of the merger would be retained by the officers even if the merger with Entergy was not consummated and did not state that under some circumstances payments made pursuant to FPL Groups LTIP might not be deductible by FPL Group for federal income tax purposes. It also alleges tha t FPL Groups LTIP required either consummation of the merger as a condition to the payments or the return of the payments if the transaction did not close, and that the actions of the director defendants in approving the proxy statements, causing the payments to be made, and failing to demand their return constitute corporate waste. The plaintiffs seek to have the shareholder votes approving FPL Groups LTIP and the merger declared null and void, the return to FPL Group of the payments received by the officers, compensatory damages from the individual defendants and attorneys fees. The defendants have filed a motion to stay the proceeding for failure to make a demand, as required by the Florida Business Corporation Act, that the board of directors of FPL Group take action with respect to the matters alleged in the complaint. FPL Groups board of directors had previously established a special committee to investigate a demand by another shareholder that the board take action to obtain the return of the p ayments made to the officers. On March 8, 2002, William M. Klein, by Stephen S. Klein under power of attorney, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against FPL Group (as nominal defendant); its current and certain former directors; and certain current and former officers of FPL Group and FPL, including James L. Broadhead, Paul J. Evanson, Lewis Hay III and Dennis P. Coyle. The lawsuit alleges that the payments made to certain officers under FPL Groups LTIP upon shareholder approval of the proposed merger with Entergy were improper and constituted corporate waste because the merger was not consummated. The suit alleges that the LTIP required consummation of the merger as a condition to the payments. The plaintiff seeks the return to FPL Group of the payments received by the officers; contribution, restitution and or damages from the individual defendants; and attorneys fees. The plaintiff had made a demand in January 2002 that the directors of FPL Group take action to obtain the return of the payments to the officers. The plaintiff was promptly notified that this demand was being referred to a special committee of FPL Groups board of directors that was established to investigate a demand by another shareholder that the board take action to obtain the return of the payments made to the officers. The defendants intend to file a motion to stay this lawsuit pending the outcome of the special committees investigation. In the event that FPL Group and FPL do not prevail in these suits, there may be a material adverse effect on their financial statements. However, FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the pending litigation discussed above and are vigorously defending these suits. Accordingly, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from these proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the financial statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Common Stock Data. All of FPLs common stock is owned by FPL Group. FPL Groups common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter during the past two years are as follows: 2001 2000 Quarter High Low High Low First $ 71.63 $ 54.81 $ 48.25 $ 36.38 Second $ 63.15 $ 54.55 $ 50.81 $ 41.81 Third $ 60.50 $ 51.21 $ 67.13 $ 47.13 Fourth $ 57.28 $ 52.16 $ 73.00 $ 59.38 Approximate Number of Stockholders. As of the close of business on February 28, 2002, there were 39,319 holders of record of FPL Groups common stock. Dividends. Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of FPL Group during the past two years in the following amounts: Quarter 2001 2000 First $ 0.56 $ 0.54 Second $ 0.56 $ 0.54 Third $ 0.56 $ 0.54 Fourth $ 0.56 $ 0.54 The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Groups common stock are within the sole discretion of FPL Groups board of directors. The board of directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of FPL Groups financial position and results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions and any other factors the board deems relevant. The ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. There are no restrictions in effect that currently limit FPLs ability to pay dividends to FPL Group. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 4 Common Stock Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Years Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 SELECTED DATA OF FPL GROUP (millions, except per share amounts): Operating revenues $ 8,475 $ 7,082 $ 6,438 $ 6,661 $ 6,369 Net income $ 781 (a) $ 704 (b) $ 697 (c) $ 664 $ 618 Earnings per share of common stock: Basic $ 4.63 (a) $ 4.14 (b) $ 4.07 (c) $ 3.85 $ 3.57 Assuming dilution $ 4.62 (a) $ 4.14 (b) $ 4.07 (c) $ 3.85 $ 3.57 Dividends paid per share of common stock $ 2.24 $ 2.16 $ 2.08 $ 2.00 $ 1.92 Total assets $ 17,463 $ 15,300 $ 13,441 $ 12,029 $ 12,449 Long term debt, excluding current maturities $ 4,858 $ 3,976 $ 3,478 $ 2,347 $ 2,949 Obligations of FPL under capital lease, excluding current maturities $ 133 $ 127 $ 157 $ 146 $ 186 SELECTED DATA OF FPL (millions): Operating revenues $ 7,477 $ 6,361 $ 6,057 $ 6,366 $ 6,132 Net income available to FPL Group $ 679 (d) $ 607 (d) $ 576 (c) $ 616 $ 608 Total assets $ 11,924 $ 12,020 $ 10,608 $ 10,748 $ 11,172 Long term debt, excluding current maturities $ 2,579 $ 2,577 $ 2,079 $ 2,191 $ 2,420 Energy sales (kwh) 93,488 91,969 88,067 89,362 82,734 Energy sales: Residential 50.9 % 50.4 % 50.2 % 50.9 % 50.6 % Commercial 40.6 40.2 40.3 38.8 39.8 Industrial 4.4 4.1 4.5 4.4 4.7 Interchange power sales 2.2 3.1 3.0 3.2 2.1 Other (e) 1.9 2.2 2.0 2.7 2.8 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Approximate 60 minute peak load (mw)(f): Summer season 18,754 17,808 17,615 17,897 16,613 Winter season 17,585 18,219 17,057 16,802 13,047 Average number of customer accounts (thousands): Residential 3,491 3,414 3,332 3,266 3,209 Commercial 427 415 405 397 389 Industrial 15 16 16 15 15 Other 2 3 3 2 3 Total 3,935 3,848 3,756 3,680 3,616 Average price per kwh (cents)(g) 8.05 6.86 6.87 7.13 7.37 (a) Includes merger related expenses and the net positive effects of applying FAS 133. Excluding these items, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share (basic and assuming dilution) would have been $792 million and $4.69, respectively. (b) Includes merger related expenses. Excluding these expenses, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share would have been $745 million and $4.38, respectively. (c) Includes effects of gains on divestiture of cable investments, impairment loss and litigation settlement. Excluding these items, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share would have been $681 million and $3.98, respectively. Excluding the litigation settlement, FPLs net income available to FPL Group would have been $618 million. (d) Includes merger related expenses. Excluding these expenses, FPLs net income available to FPL Group would have been $695 million in 2001 and $645 million in 2000. (e) Includes the net change in unbilled sales. (f) Winter season includes November and December of the current year and January to March of the following year. (g) Excludes interchange power sales, net change in unbilled revenues, deferrals/recoveries under cost recovery clauses and the provision for retail rate refund. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the application of numerous complex accounting principles. One of the more significant accounting principles considered in the preparation of FPL Groups and FPLs financial statements is FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 requires rate regulated public utilities companies (such as FPL) to alter the accounting for certain costs and revenues from what would otherwise be reported by an unregulated entity to more closely reflect the ratemaking process. As described in Note 1 Regulation, significant regulatory assets and liabilities have been recorded on FPLs books as a result of applying FAS 71. In the event that FPL is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, these regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify another means of recovery or refund. See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Management is often required to use its judgment and make assumptions in the calculation of estimates that affect the recorded amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL. One of the more significant estimates affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL is the estimated cost to decommission and dismantle their generating units. See Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant for a description of the significant assumptions used to calculate estimated decommissioning and dismantlement costs. Results of Operations FPL Groups net income and earnings per share in 2001 and 2000 increased despite charges for merger related expenses in both periods. These charges reduced net income and earnings per share in 2001 by $19 million and $0.11, respectively, and in 2000 by $41 million and $0.24, respectively. Also impacting 2001 earnings was the implementation of FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net unrealized gains related to derivative instruments accounted for under FAS 133 during 2001 increased net income and earnings per share by $8 million and $0.04, respectively. Net income and earnings per share in 1999 included the net effect of several nonrecurring transactions that resulted in additional net income of $16 million, or $0.09 per share. Excluding the merger related expenses in 2001 and 2000 and the net unrealized mark to market gains recorded in accordance with FAS 133 in 2001, FPL Groups net income in 2001 increased 6.3% to $792 million, and e arnings per share (basic and assuming dilution) increased 7.1% to $4.69. The comparable growth rates for 2000, excluding also the nonrecurring items in 1999, were 9.4% and 10.1%, respectively. In 2001 and 2000, both FPL and FPL Energy contributed to the growth. The discussion of results of operations below excludes the effects of FAS 133 net unrealized gains (see Note 5) and merger related expenses (see Note 11). FPL FPLs net income for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the nonrecurring charges, was $695 million, $645 million and $618 million, respectively. FPLs results for 2001 reflect continued customer growth, slightly higher electricity usage per retail customer despite a slowing economy and the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, and lower depreciation expense. A higher retail refund provision under the revenue sharing mechanism of the rate agreement, as well as higher O&M and interest expenses, partly offset the positive factors. FPLs results for 2000 benefited from customer growth, increased electricity usage per retail customer and lower O&M expenses. The effect of the rate reduction and higher interest charges partly offset these positives. FPLs operating revenues consist primarily of revenues from retail base operations, cost recovery clauses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees. Revenues from retail base operations were $3.6 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.5 billion in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Revenues from cost recovery clauses and franchise fees represent a pass through of costs and do not significantly affect net income. Fluctuations in these revenues are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. As a result of significant volatility in oil and gas prices in the last couple of years, FPL has received permission from the FPSC for mid course changes to the annual retail customer fuel rate. The fuel rate was increased in June 2000 and April 2001 (in addition to another increase on January 1, 2001 as part of the normal fuel setting process) but was decreased in October 2001. This has resulted in a significant increase in clause revenues in 2001 and, to a lesser extent, in 2000. FPLs annual fuel filing for 2001, as approved by the FPSC, included approximately $518 million of under recovered fuel costs from 2000, of which one half ($259 million) was recovered in 2001. The remaining $259 million is being recovered in 2002. FPL agreed to this two year recovery, rather than the typical one year time frame, to ease the impact to customers bills. FPL also agreed that, instead of receiving a return at the commercial paper rate on this unrecovered portion through the fuel clause, the under recovery will be included as a rate base regulatory asset over the two year recovery period. See Note 1 Regulation. FPLs current rate agreement, which became effective April 15, 1999 and expires on April 14, 2002, provides for a $350 million reduction in annual revenues from retail base operations allocated to all customers on a cents per kilowatt hour basis. Additionally, the agreement sets forth a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. For the twelve month period ending April 14, 2002, the first threshold is $3.5 billion and the second threshold is $3.656 billion. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, FPL accrued approximately $110 million, $60 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to refunds to retail customers. At December 3 1, 2001 and 2000, the accrual for the revenue refund was approximately $62 million and $57 million, respectively. Actual refunds to retail customers, including interest, for the twelve month periods ending April 14, 2001 and 2000 were $109 million and $23 million, respectively. The final refund under the rate agreement will be distributed to customers in June 2002. The earnings effect of the annual revenue reduction was offset by lower special depreciation. Under the rate agreement, the FPSC allowed FPL to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was required to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets. Under this depreciation program, FPL recorded $100 million of special depreciation in the first twelve month period and $71 million in the second twelve month period. Through December 31, 2001, FPL has not recorded any special depreciation for the third twelve month period. On a calendar year basis, FPL recorded approximately $101 million and $70 million of special depreciation in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and nothing in 2001. FPL also recorded special amortization in the amount of $63 million in 1999 under a previous program approved by the FPSC. The rate agreement also lowered FPLs authorized regulatory ROE range to 10% 12%. During the term of the agreement, the achieved ROE may from time to time be outside the authorized range, and the revenue sharing mechanism described above is specified to be the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. FPL reported an ROE of 12.3%, 12.2% and 12.1% in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. The increase in retail base revenues in 2001 was due to a 2.3% increase in retail customer accounts and a 0.4% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. This was partly offset by a higher provision for refund to retail customers. Revenues from retail base operations were flat during 2000. Customer growth of 2.5% and a 1.9% increase in electricity usage per retail customer was almost entirely offset by the effect of the rate reduction and a higher provision for refund to retail customers. On March 22, 2002, the FPSC approved an agreement signed an agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates that, among other things, provides for an additional $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues. The new rate agreement resolves all matters in FPLs base rate proceeding and will be effective April 15, 2002 through December 31, 2005. The new rate agreement is subject to approval by the FPSC. For additional information regarding the new rate agreement, see Note 18 Base Rate Proceeding. FPLs O&M expenses increased in 2001 after several years of decline. The increase can be attributed to system growth, reliability improvements, costs incurred at fossil production plants to comply with regulations and maintain operating service availability, as well as costs associated with weaker economic conditions. O&M expenses in 2000 declined due to improved productivity. FPLs O&M expenses are expected to increase in 2002 and 2003 reflecting continued pressure from inflation, customer growth and an aging asset base. Interest charges increased in both 2001 and 2000 reflecting increased debt activity to fund FPLs capital expansion program and under recovered fuel costs. The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive pressure. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2001, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that issued orders designed to deregulate the production and sale of electricity. By allowing customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available fo r wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. In 2000, the Governor of Florida signed an executive order creating the Energy 2020 Study Commission to propose an energy plan and strategy for Florida. The commission chose to split the energy study between wholesale and retail competition. In January 2001, the commission issued an interim report containing a proposal for restructuring Floridas wholesale electricity market, and no action was taken in the 2001 legislative session, which ended in May 2001. In December 2001, the commission issued a final report that recommended the removal of statutory barriers to entry for merchant plants and, according to the report, provides a discretionary transition to a "level playing field" for all generating assets. Under the commissions proposal, investor owned utilities such as FPL could, at their discretion, transfer or sell their existing generating assets. The utility would have the right to six year cost based transition contracts to commit the capacity of assets sold or transferred back to the util ity. Transfers to affiliates would be at net book value. Gains on sales of existing generating assets within the transition contract period would be shared with customers. Any losses would be absorbed by the utilitys shareholders. The load serving utilities would acquire new capacity through competitive bidding (which would be required if acquired from affiliates), negotiated contracts or from the short term (spot) market. Transmission assets could be transferred (at net book value) to, or operated by, a FERC approved RTO. The final report recommends no change to the retail competition structure until an effective competitive wholesale market has been developed. The commissions proposal may be addressed in the legislative session which takes place from January through March 2002, or in a subsequent session. In addition, the FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In November 2001, the FERC issued an order providing guidance on how the FERC will proceed with the RTO development. The issues of scope and governance will be addressed within individual RTO dockets, after consultation with the state utility commissions. The issues of standardization of tariffs and market design will be addressed in a separate rulemaking docket. With regard to the operational deadline of the RTOs initially set for December 15, 2001, the FERC, in consultation with the state utility commissions, will set revised timelines in each of the individual RTO dockets. In March 2002, FPL filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own the transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In addition, the FPSC urged the utilities to continue participation in discussions with the FERC initiated in mid 2001 regarding the creation of a single RTO for the Southeast region of the United States, but did not recommend them joining it now. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys 2001 earnings growth was driven mainly by the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio. Portfolio additions that contributed to the earnings growth included a 495 mw natural gas fired unit at Lamar Power Partners in the Central region, which became operational in late 2000, a 171 mw natural gas fired peaking unit at its Doswell plant in the Mid Atlantic region and five new wind projects totaling 843 mw in the Central and West regions. Earnings in 2001 also benefited from improved results from the Maine assets, primarily the result of asset optimization activities and higher capacity revenues, partly offset by higher administrative and interest expenses associated with the growth of the business. In 2000, FPL Energys earnings also benefited from the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio, as well as increased revenues generated by the Maine assets as a result of warmer weather and higher prices in the Northeast during May 2000 and lower O&M expenses at Doswell. In 1999, the effect of a $176 million ($104 million after tax) impairment loss (see Note 13) and higher administrative expenses to accommodate future growth more than offset the benefits of the growing generation portfolio and improved results from Doswell. Deregulation of the electric utility market presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets that are being divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Current wholesale market trends indicate the potential of an oversupply of generation and lower demand as a result of a weakening economy, which would likely result in lower wholesale electricity prices. FPL Energy believes that favorable conditions continue to exist in certain areas of the country and plans to move forward with the projects currently under construction. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by selling a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants through power sales agreements. In 2001, approximately 86% of FPL Energys capacity was under contract. FPL Energy has approximately 8 0% of its 2002 capacity and more than 50% of its 2003 capacity currently under contracts which expire in 2002 27. As competitive wholesale markets become more accessible to other generators, obtaining power sales agreements will become a progressively more competitive process. FPL Energy expects that as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. On March 1, 2002, FPL Energys projects received the majority of the payments due from California utilities for electricity sold from November 2000 through March 2001, which had been past due. FPL Groups remaining earnings exposure relating to past due receivables from these California utilities is not material. Corporate and Other FPL FiberNets 2001 earnings were more than offset by corporate expenses. FPL FiberNets operating results were included in the corporate and other segment beginning in 2000. FPL FiberNet was formed in January 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Groups fiber optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations. Accordingly, in January 2000, FPLs existing fiber optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet. In 1999, net income for the corporate and other segment reflects a $149 million ($96 million after tax) gain on the sale of an investment in Adelphia Communications Corporation common stock, a $108 million ($66 million after tax) gain recorded by FPL Group Capital on the redemption of its one third interest in a cable limited partnership, costs associated with closing a retail marketing business of $11 million ($7 million after tax) and the favorable resolution of a prior year state tax matter of $10 million ($7 million after tax). For information relate d to the positive resolution in March 2002 of a prior year tax matter, see Note 18 Income Taxes. Merger In July 2000, FPL Group and Entergy announced a proposed merger, which was approved by the shareholders of the respective companies in December 2000. Subsequently, a number of factors led FPL Group to conclude the merger would not achieve the synergies or create the shareholder value originally contemplated when the merger was announced. As a result, on April 1, 2001, FPL Group and Entergy mutually terminated the merger agreement. In 2001, FPL Group recorded $30 million in merger related expenses, of which FPL recorded $26 million ($16 million after tax) and Corporate and Other recorded $4 million ($3 million after tax). In 2000, FPL Group recorded $67 million in merger related expenses, of which FPL recorded $62 million ($38 million after tax), FPL Energy recorded $2 million ($1 million after tax) and Corporate and Other recorded $3 million ($2 million after tax). For additional information concerning the merger, see Note 11. Liquidity and Capital Resources In 2001, FPL Group Capital and a subsidiary of FPL Energy issued debt totaling $935 million and FPL redeemed approximately $65 million of bonds. The proceeds from the debt issuances were used in part to reduce FPL Group Capitals commercial paper balance. Debt maturities of FPL Groups subsidiaries will require cash outflows of approximately $1.750 billion ($795 million for FPL) through 2006, including $32 million in 2002. It is anticipated that cash requirements for capital expenditures, energy related investments and debt maturities in 2002 will be satisfied with internally generated funds and from the issuance of debt and other securities. Internally generated funds may be affected by, among other things, regulatory actions, including the resolution of FPLs rate proceeding, weather conditions, changes in competitive wholesale markets and pricing and transportation of fuel and other energy commodities. Any internally generated funds not required for capital expenditures and current maturities may be used to reduce outstanding debt or repurchase common stock, or for investment. Any temporary cash needs will be met by short term bank borrowings. Bank lines of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries aggregate $3 billion ($2 billion for FPL Group Capital and $1 billion for FPL). One half of these facilities have a 364 day term, with the remainder being a three year term. These facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs as well as for general corporate purposes. FPL Groups commitments at December 31, 2001 were as follows (see Note 15 Commitments): 2002 2003 04 Thereafter Total (millions) Standby letters of credit $ 278 $ $ 1 $ 279 Guarantees 51 3 633 687 Other commitments(a): FPL 1,300 3,100 4,400 FPL Energy 80 748 828 Total $ 1,709 $ 3,851 $ 634 $ 6,194 (a) Other commitments for FPL represent capital expenditures to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth and for FPL Energy represent firm commitments in connection with the development and expansion of independent power projects. FPL Energy expects 2002 capital expenditures to approximate $2.7 billion. In February 2002, FPL Group sold a total of 11.5 million publicly traded equity units known as Corporate Units, and in connection with that financing, FPL Group Capital issued $575 million principal amount of debentures due February 16, 2007. Each Corporate Unit initially consisted of a $50 FPL Group Capital debenture and a purchase contract pursuant to which the holder will purchase $50 of FPL Group common shares on or before February 16, 2005. Prior to the issuance of FPL Groups common stock, the purchase contracts will be reflected in FPL Groups diluted earnings per share calculations using the treasury stock method. Under this method, the number of shares of FPL Group common stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share is deemed to be increased by the excess, if any, of the number of shares that would be issued upon settlement of the purchase contracts less the number of shares that could be purchased by FPL Group in the market, at the average market price during the period, using the procee ds receivable upon settlement. Consequently, FPL Group anticipates that there will not be a dilutive effect on its earnings per share except during periods when the average market price of its common stock is above $62.02. The net proceeds from the sale of the equity units were used to reduce FPL Group Capitals commercial paper borrowings. See Note 8. In 2000, subsidiaries of FPL Energy entered into two off balance sheet financing arrangements with special purpose entities. In the first transaction, FPL Energys subsidiary entered into an operating lease agreement to lease a 535 mw combined cycle power generation plant. In the second transaction, the special purpose entity funds the construction of certain turbines and related equipment. The special purpose entities in these transactions have arranged funding commitments totaling $1.075 billion through debt and equity contributions from investors who are not affiliated with FPL Group. At December 31, 2001, $340 million had been drawn on these commitments. FPL Group Capital has guaranteed the obligations of the FPL Energy subsidiaries under these agreements, which are included in the table above. Additionally, at December 31, 2001, FPL Energy has posted cash collateral of $256 million (included in other assets on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets). See Note 15 Off Balance Sheet Financin g Arrangements. FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including those under the FPL Group Capital debt, commercial paper and guarantees discussed above. FPL Group did not repurchase any common shares in 2001. As of December 31, 2001, FPL Group had repurchased a total of approximately 4.6 million shares of common stock under its 10 million share repurchase program that began in April 1997. FPL self insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution properties and maintains a funded storm reserve to reduce the financial impact of storm losses. The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was approximately $235 million and $229 million, respectively. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide cash for storm restoration costs. The FPSC has indicated that it would consider future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery from customers. FPLs charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. Given FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, expected financing activities and dividends should not be affected by these limitations. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivatives with fair values based on quoted market prices totaled negative $8 million, those with fair values based on prices provided by other external sources totaled $3 million and those with fair values based on valuation models totaled negative $1 million. The fair value of derivatives expiring in 2002 was $3 million and the remainder have expiration dates through December 2005. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair value of trading instruments at FPL Group was less than $1 million. Derivative instruments are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups unregulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair value are recognized currently in earnings (in other net) unless hedge accounting is applied. Settlement gains and losses are included within the line items in the statements of income to which they relate. See Note 5. Market Risk Sensitivity Substantially all financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Commodity price risk The fair value of the net position in commodity based derivative instruments at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was a negative $6 million and a negative $11 million, respectively for FPL Group and a negative $1 million and a negative $5 million, respectively for FPL. The effect of a hypothetical 40% decrease in the price of natural gas and electricity and a hypothetical 25% decrease in the price of oil, both of which are reasonably possible near term market changes, would be to change the fair value at December 31, 2001 of these instruments to a negative $36 million for FPL Group and a negative $7 million for FPL. Interest rate risk The special use funds of FPL include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage and for the decommissioning of FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value of approximately $1.020 billion and $1.002 billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. Because the funds set aside for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer term securities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, other investments of FPL Group include approximately $600 million and $300 million, respectively, of investments t hat are carried at estimated fair value or cost, which approximates fair value. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPLs and FPL Groups long term debt: December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value (millions) Long term debt of FPL, including current maturities $ 2,579 $ 2,653 (a) $ 2,642 $ 2,621 (a) Long term debt of FPL Group, including current maturities $ 4,890 $ 5,080 (a) $ 4,041 $ 4,080 (a) (a) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of the net liabilities would increase by approximately $148 million ($64 million for FPL) at December 31, 2001. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $576 million and $511 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $58 million reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment at December 31, 2001. New Accounting Rules Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Effective January 1, 2002, FPL Group adopted FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." For information concerning the adoption of FAS 142, see Note 1 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations Beginning in 2003, FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note 1 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the application of numerous complex accounting principles. One of the more significant accounting principles considered in the preparation of FPL Groups and FPLs financial statements is FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 requires rate regulated public utilities companies (such as FPL) to alter the accounting for certain costs and revenues from what would otherwise be reported by an unregulated entity to more closely reflect the ratemaking process. As described in Note 1 Regulation, significant regulatory assets and liabilities have been recorded on FPLs books as a result of applying FAS 71. In the event that FPL is no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, these regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify another means of recovery or refund. See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Management is often required to use its judgment and make assumptions in the calculation of estimates that affect the recorded amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL. One of the more significant estimates affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL is the estimated cost to decommission and dismantle their generating units. See Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant for a description of the significant assumptions used to calculate estimated decommissioning and dismantlement costs. Results of Operations FPL Groups net income and earnings per share in 2001 and 2000 increased despite charges for merger related expenses in both periods. These charges reduced net income and earnings per share in 2001 by $19 million and $0.11, respectively, and in 2000 by $41 million and $0.24, respectively. Also impacting 2001 earnings was the implementation of FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net unrealized gains related to derivative instruments accounted for under FAS 133 during 2001 increased net income and earnings per share by $8 million and $0.04, respectively. Net income and earnings per share in 1999 included the net effect of several nonrecurring transactions that resulted in additional net income of $16 million, or $0.09 per share. Excluding the merger related expenses in 2001 and 2000 and the net unrealized mark to market gains recorded in accordance with FAS 133 in 2001, FPL Groups net income in 2001 increased 6.3% to $792 million, and e arnings per share (basic and assuming dilution) increased 7.1% to $4.69. The comparable growth rates for 2000, excluding also the nonrecurring items in 1999, were 9.4% and 10.1%, respectively. In 2001 and 2000, both FPL and FPL Energy contributed to the growth. The discussion of results of operations below excludes the effects of FAS 133 net unrealized gains (see Note 5) and merger related expenses (see Note 11). FPL FPLs net income for 2001, 2000 and 1999, excluding the nonrecurring charges, was $695 million, $645 million and $618 million, respectively. FPLs results for 2001 reflect continued customer growth, slightly higher electricity usage per retail customer despite a slowing economy and the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, and lower depreciation expense. A higher retail refund provision under the revenue sharing mechanism of the rate agreement, as well as higher O&M and interest expenses, partly offset the positive factors. FPLs results for 2000 benefited from customer growth, increased electricity usage per retail customer and lower O&M expenses. The effect of the rate reduction and higher interest charges partly offset these positives. FPLs operating revenues consist primarily of revenues from retail base operations, cost recovery clauses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees. Revenues from retail base operations were $3.6 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.5 billion in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Revenues from cost recovery clauses and franchise fees represent a pass through of costs and do not significantly affect net income. Fluctuations in these revenues are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. As a result of significant volatility in oil and gas prices in the last couple of years, FPL has received permission from the FPSC for mid course changes to the annual retail customer fuel rate. The fuel rate was increased in June 2000 and April 2001 (in addition to another increase on January 1, 2001 as part of the normal fuel setting process) but was decreased in October 2001. This has resulted in a significant increase in clause revenues in 2001 and, to a lesser extent, in 2000. FPLs annual fuel filing for 2001, as approved by the FPSC, included approximately $518 million of under recovered fuel costs from 2000, of which one half ($259 million) was recovered in 2001. The remaining $259 million is being recovered in 2002. FPL agreed to this two year recovery, rather than the typical one year time frame, to ease the impact to customers bills. FPL also agreed that, instead of receiving a return at the commercial paper rate on this unrecovered portion through the fuel clause, the under recovery will be included as a rate base regulatory asset over the two year recovery period. See Note 1 Regulation. FPLs current rate agreement, which became effective April 15, 1999 and expires on April 14, 2002, provides for a $350 million reduction in annual revenues from retail base operations allocated to all customers on a cents per kilowatt hour basis. Additionally, the agreement sets forth a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. For the twelve month period ending April 14, 2002, the first threshold is $3.5 billion and the second threshold is $3.656 billion. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, FPL accrued approximately $110 million, $60 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to refunds to retail customers. At December 3 1, 2001 and 2000, the accrual for the revenue refund was approximately $62 million and $57 million, respectively. Actual refunds to retail customers, including interest, for the twelve month periods ending April 14, 2001 and 2000 were $109 million and $23 million, respectively. The final refund under the rate agreement will be distributed to customers in June 2002. The earnings effect of the annual revenue reduction was offset by lower special depreciation. Under the rate agreement, the FPSC allowed FPL to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was required to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets. Under this depreciation program, FPL recorded $100 million of special depreciation in the first twelve month period and $71 million in the second twelve month period. Through December 31, 2001, FPL has not recorded any special depreciation for the third twelve month period. On a calendar year basis, FPL recorded approximately $101 million and $70 million of special depreciation in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and nothing in 2001. FPL also recorded special amortization in the amount of $63 million in 1999 under a previous program approved by the FPSC. The rate agreement also lowered FPLs authorized regulatory ROE range to 10% 12%. During the term of the agreement, the achieved ROE may from time to time be outside the authorized range, and the revenue sharing mechanism described above is specified to be the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. FPL reported an ROE of 12.3%, 12.2% and 12.1% in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. The increase in retail base revenues in 2001 was due to a 2.3% increase in retail customer accounts and a 0.4% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. This was partly offset by a higher provision for refund to retail customers. Revenues from retail base operations were flat during 2000. Customer growth of 2.5% and a 1.9% increase in electricity usage per retail customer was almost entirely offset by the effect of the rate reduction and a higher provision for refund to retail customers. On March 22, 2002, the FPSC approved an agreement signed an agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates that, among other things, provides for an additional $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues. The new rate agreement resolves all matters in FPLs base rate proceeding and will be effective April 15, 2002 through December 31, 2005. The new rate agreement is subject to approval by the FPSC. For additional information regarding the new rate agreement, see Note 18 Base Rate Proceeding. FPLs O&M expenses increased in 2001 after several years of decline. The increase can be attributed to system growth, reliability improvements, costs incurred at fossil production plants to comply with regulations and maintain operating service availability, as well as costs associated with weaker economic conditions. O&M expenses in 2000 declined due to improved productivity. FPLs O&M expenses are expected to increase in 2002 and 2003 reflecting continued pressure from inflation, customer growth and an aging asset base. Interest charges increased in both 2001 and 2000 reflecting increased debt activity to fund FPLs capital expansion program and under recovered fuel costs. The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive pressure. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2001, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that issued orders designed to deregulate the production and sale of electricity. By allowing customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available fo r wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. In 2000, the Governor of Florida signed an executive order creating the Energy 2020 Study Commission to propose an energy plan and strategy for Florida. The commission chose to split the energy study between wholesale and retail competition. In January 2001, the commission issued an interim report containing a proposal for restructuring Floridas wholesale electricity market, and no action was taken in the 2001 legislative session, which ended in May 2001. In December 2001, the commission issued a final report that recommended the removal of statutory barriers to entry for merchant plants and, according to the report, provides a discretionary transition to a "level playing field" for all generating assets. Under the commissions proposal, investor owned utilities such as FPL could, at their discretion, transfer or sell their existing generating assets. The utility would have the right to six year cost based transition contracts to commit the capacity of assets sold or transferred back to the util ity. Transfers to affiliates would be at net book value. Gains on sales of existing generating assets within the transition contract period would be shared with customers. Any losses would be absorbed by the utilitys shareholders. The load serving utilities would acquire new capacity through competitive bidding (which would be required if acquired from affiliates), negotiated contracts or from the short term (spot) market. Transmission assets could be transferred (at net book value) to, or operated by, a FERC approved RTO. The final report recommends no change to the retail competition structure until an effective competitive wholesale market has been developed. The commissions proposal may be addressed in the legislative session which takes place from January through March 2002, or in a subsequent session. In addition, the FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In November 2001, the FERC issued an order providing guidance on how the FERC will proceed with the RTO development. The issues of scope and governance will be addressed within individual RTO dockets, after consultation with the state utility commissions. The issues of standardization of tariffs and market design will be addressed in a separate rulemaking docket. With regard to the operational deadline of the RTOs initially set for December 15, 2001, the FERC, in consultation with the state utility commissions, will set revised timelines in each of the individual RTO dockets. In March 2002, FPL filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own the transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In addition, the FPSC urged the utilities to continue participation in discussions with the FERC initiated in mid 2001 regarding the creation of a single RTO for the Southeast region of the United States, but did not recommend them joining it now. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys 2001 earnings growth was driven mainly by the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio. Portfolio additions that contributed to the earnings growth included a 495 mw natural gas fired unit at Lamar Power Partners in the Central region, which became operational in late 2000, a 171 mw natural gas fired peaking unit at its Doswell plant in the Mid Atlantic region and five new wind projects totaling 843 mw in the Central and West regions. Earnings in 2001 also benefited from improved results from the Maine assets, primarily the result of asset optimization activities and higher capacity revenues, partly offset by higher administrative and interest expenses associated with the growth of the business. In 2000, FPL Energys earnings also benefited from the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio, as well as increased revenues generated by the Maine assets as a result of warmer weather and higher prices in the Northeast during May 2000 and lower O&M expenses at Doswell. In 1999, the effect of a $176 million ($104 million after tax) impairment loss (see Note 13) and higher administrative expenses to accommodate future growth more than offset the benefits of the growing generation portfolio and improved results from Doswell. Deregulation of the electric utility market presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets that are being divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Current wholesale market trends indicate the potential of an oversupply of generation and lower demand as a result of a weakening economy, which would likely result in lower wholesale electricity prices. FPL Energy believes that favorable conditions continue to exist in certain areas of the country and plans to move forward with the projects currently under construction. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by selling a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants through power sales agreements. In 2001, approximately 86% of FPL Energys capacity was under contract. FPL Energy has approximately 8 0% of its 2002 capacity and more than 50% of its 2003 capacity currently under contracts which expire in 2002 27. As competitive wholesale markets become more accessible to other generators, obtaining power sales agreements will become a progressively more competitive process. FPL Energy expects that as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. On March 1, 2002, FPL Energys projects received the majority of the payments due from California utilities for electricity sold from November 2000 through March 2001, which had been past due. FPL Groups remaining earnings exposure relating to past due receivables from these California utilities is not material. Corporate and Other FPL FiberNets 2001 earnings were more than offset by corporate expenses. FPL FiberNets operating results were included in the corporate and other segment beginning in 2000. FPL FiberNet was formed in January 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Groups fiber optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations. Accordingly, in January 2000, FPLs existing fiber optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet. In 1999, net income for the corporate and other segment reflects a $149 million ($96 million after tax) gain on the sale of an investment in Adelphia Communications Corporation common stock, a $108 million ($66 million after tax) gain recorded by FPL Group Capital on the redemption of its one third interest in a cable limited partnership, costs associated with closing a retail marketing business of $11 million ($7 million after tax) and the favorable resolution of a prior year state tax matter of $10 million ($7 million after tax). For information relate d to the positive resolution in March 2002 of a prior year tax matter, see Note 18 Income Taxes. Merger In July 2000, FPL Group and Entergy announced a proposed merger, which was approved by the shareholders of the respective companies in December 2000. Subsequently, a number of factors led FPL Group to conclude the merger would not achieve the synergies or create the shareholder value originally contemplated when the merger was announced. As a result, on April 1, 2001, FPL Group and Entergy mutually terminated the merger agreement. In 2001, FPL Group recorded $30 million in merger related expenses, of which FPL recorded $26 million ($16 million after tax) and Corporate and Other recorded $4 million ($3 million after tax). In 2000, FPL Group recorded $67 million in merger related expenses, of which FPL recorded $62 million ($38 million after tax), FPL Energy recorded $2 million ($1 million after tax) and Corporate and Other recorded $3 million ($2 million after tax). For additional information concerning the merger, see Note 11. Liquidity and Capital Resources In 2001, FPL Group Capital and a subsidiary of FPL Energy issued debt totaling $935 million and FPL redeemed approximately $65 million of bonds. The proceeds from the debt issuances were used in part to reduce FPL Group Capitals commercial paper balance. Debt maturities of FPL Groups subsidiaries will require cash outflows of approximately $1.750 billion ($795 million for FPL) through 2006, including $32 million in 2002. It is anticipated that cash requirements for capital expenditures, energy related investments and debt maturities in 2002 will be satisfied with internally generated funds and from the issuance of debt and other securities. Internally generated funds may be affected by, among other things, regulatory actions, including the resolution of FPLs rate proceeding, weather conditions, changes in competitive wholesale markets and pricing and transportation of fuel and other energy commodities. Any internally generated funds not required for capital expenditures and current maturities may be used to reduce outstanding debt or repurchase common stock, or for investment. Any temporary cash needs will be met by short term bank borrowings. Bank lines of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries aggregate $3 billion ($2 billion for FPL Group Capital and $1 billion for FPL). One half of these facilities have a 364 day term, with the remainder being a three year term. These facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs as well as for general corporate purposes. FPL Groups commitments at December 31, 2001 were as follows (see Note 15 Commitments): 2002 2003 04 Thereafter Total (millions) Standby letters of credit $ 278 $ $ 1 $ 279 Guarantees 51 3 633 687 Other commitments(a): FPL 1,300 3,100 4,400 FPL Energy 80 748 828 Total $ 1,709 $ 3,851 $ 634 $ 6,194 (a) Other commitments for FPL represent capital expenditures to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth and for FPL Energy represent firm commitments in connection with the development and expansion of independent power projects. FPL Energy expects 2002 capital expenditures to approximate $2.7 billion. In February 2002, FPL Group sold a total of 11.5 million publicly traded equity units known as Corporate Units, and in connection with that financing, FPL Group Capital issued $575 million principal amount of debentures due February 16, 2007. Each Corporate Unit initially consisted of a $50 FPL Group Capital debenture and a purchase contract pursuant to which the holder will purchase $50 of FPL Group common shares on or before February 16, 2005. Prior to the issuance of FPL Groups common stock, the purchase contracts will be reflected in FPL Groups diluted earnings per share calculations using the treasury stock method. Under this method, the number of shares of FPL Group common stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share is deemed to be increased by the excess, if any, of the number of shares that would be issued upon settlement of the purchase contracts less the number of shares that could be purchased by FPL Group in the market, at the average market price during the period, using the procee ds receivable upon settlement. Consequently, FPL Group anticipates that there will not be a dilutive effect on its earnings per share except during periods when the average market price of its common stock is above $62.02. The net proceeds from the sale of the equity units were used to reduce FPL Group Capitals commercial paper borrowings. See Note 8. In 2000, subsidiaries of FPL Energy entered into two off balance sheet financing arrangements with special purpose entities. In the first transaction, FPL Energys subsidiary entered into an operating lease agreement to lease a 535 mw combined cycle power generation plant. In the second transaction, the special purpose entity funds the construction of certain turbines and related equipment. The special purpose entities in these transactions have arranged funding commitments totaling $1.075 billion through debt and equity contributions from investors who are not affiliated with FPL Group. At December 31, 2001, $340 million had been drawn on these commitments. FPL Group Capital has guaranteed the obligations of the FPL Energy subsidiaries under these agreements, which are included in the table above. Additionally, at December 31, 2001, FPL Energy has posted cash collateral of $256 million (included in other assets on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets). See Note 15 Off Balance Sheet Financin g Arrangements. FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including those under the FPL Group Capital debt, commercial paper and guarantees discussed above. FPL Group did not repurchase any common shares in 2001. As of December 31, 2001, FPL Group had repurchased a total of approximately 4.6 million shares of common stock under its 10 million share repurchase program that began in April 1997. FPL self insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution properties and maintains a funded storm reserve to reduce the financial impact of storm losses. The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was approximately $235 million and $229 million, respectively. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide cash for storm restoration costs. The FPSC has indicated that it would consider future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery from customers. FPLs charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. Given FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, expected financing activities and dividends should not be affected by these limitations. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivatives with fair values based on quoted market prices totaled negative $8 million, those with fair values based on prices provided by other external sources totaled $3 million and those with fair values based on valuation models totaled negative $1 million. The fair value of derivatives expiring in 2002 was $3 million and the remainder have expiration dates through December 2005. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair value of trading instruments at FPL Group was less than $1 million. Derivative instruments are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups unregulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair value are recognized currently in earnings (in other net) unless hedge accounting is applied. Settlement gains and losses are included within the line items in the statements of income to which they relate. See Note 5. Market Risk Sensitivity Substantially all financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Commodity price risk The fair value of the net position in commodity based derivative instruments at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was a negative $6 million and a negative $11 million, respectively for FPL Group and a negative $1 million and a negative $5 million, respectively for FPL. The effect of a hypothetical 40% decrease in the price of natural gas and electricity and a hypothetical 25% decrease in the price of oil, both of which are reasonably possible near term market changes, would be to change the fair value at December 31, 2001 of these instruments to a negative $36 million for FPL Group and a negative $7 million for FPL. Interest rate risk The special use funds of FPL include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage and for the decommissioning of FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value of approximately $1.020 billion and $1.002 billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. Because the funds set aside for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer term securities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, other investments of FPL Group include approximately $600 million and $300 million, respectively, of investments t hat are carried at estimated fair value or cost, which approximates fair value. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPLs and FPL Groups long term debt: December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value (millions) Long term debt of FPL, including current maturities $ 2,579 $ 2,653 (a) $ 2,642 $ 2,621 (a) Long term debt of FPL Group, including current maturities $ 4,890 $ 5,080 (a) $ 4,041 $ 4,080 (a) (a) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of the net liabilities would increase by approximately $148 million ($64 million for FPL) at December 31, 2001. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $576 million and $511 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $58 million reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment at December 31, 2001. New Accounting Rules Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Effective January 1, 2002, FPL Group adopted FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." For information concerning the adoption of FAS 142, see Note 1 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations Beginning in 2003, FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note 1 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity 
 
