Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MAPP Mid Continent Area Power Pool mortgage FPLs mortgage and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, as supplemented and amended mw megawatt(s) NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Council Note note to consolidated financial statements NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Policy Act Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 NYPP New York Power Pool O&M expenses other operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income OCI other comprehensive income PFS Private Fuel Storage, LLC PJM PJM Interconnection PMI FPL Energy Power Marketing, Inc. Public Counsel State of Florida Office of Public Counsel PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended qualifying facilities non utility power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying facility under the PURPA Reform Act Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ROE return on common equity RTOs regional transmission organizations Seabrook Seabrook Station SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SERC Southeastern Electric Reliability Council SPE special purpose entity SPP Southwest Power Pool storm fund storm and property insurance reserve fund VIE variable interest entity WECC Western Electricity Coordinating Council CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, FPL Group and FPL are hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Groups or FPLs actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this combined Form 10 K, in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimated, projection, target, outlook) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward looking. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, t he following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward looking statements) that could cause FPL Groups or FPLs actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL. Any forward looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Groups and FPLs operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Groups and FPLs actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements: FPL Group and FPL are subject to changes in laws or regulations, including the PURPA and the Holding Company Act, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the FERC, the FPSC and the utility commissions of other states in which FPL Group has operations, and the NRC, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, operation and construction of transmission facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, ROE and equity ratio limits, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs). The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. The regulatory process generally restricts FPLs ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. FPL Group and FPL are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future. FPL Group and FPL operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation of the production and sale of electricity. FPL Group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, the dependence on a specific fuel source or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), as well as the risk of performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. In addition to these risks, FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including additional regulatory actions up to and including shut down of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at FPL Groups and FPLs plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators. Breakdown or failure of an FPL Energy operating facility may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. FPL Groups and FPLs ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, FPL Group and FPL could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts and or the write off of their investment in the project or improvement. FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. FPL Group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform. In addition, FPLs use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges by the FPSC and if found imprudent, cost disallowance. There are other risks associated with FPL Groups nonregulated businesses, particularly FPL Energy. In addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting FPL Energys success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power. There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of FPL Energy. FPL Energys inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair its future financial results. In keeping with industry trends, a portion of FPL Energys power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of FPL Groups financial results. In addition, FPL Energys business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable FPL Energys ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited. FPL Group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry. In addition, FPL Group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of FPL Group and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets which, in turn, could impact FPL Groups and FPLs ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs. FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at wind and hydro powered facilities. In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage, which could require additional costs to be incurred. FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax rates or policies, rates of inflation or accounting standards. FPL Group and FPL are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, delay in economic recovery in the U.S., and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. FPL Groups and FPLs ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national events as well as company specific events. FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees or work stoppage. The issues and associated risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones FPL Group and FPL may face. Additional issues may arise or become material as the energy industry evolves. The risks and uncertainties associated with these additional issues could impair FPL Groups and FPLs businesses in the future. PART I Item 1. Business FPL GROUP FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the Holding Company Act. It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida. FPL Groups principal subsidiary, FPL, is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. FPL Group Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the capital stock and provides funding for the operating subsidiaries other than FPL. The business activities of these operating subsidiaries primarily consist of FPL Energys non rate regulated power projects. For financial information regarding FPL Groups business segments, see Note 18. At December 31, 2002, FPL Group and its subsidiaries employed 11,577 persons. FPL Group is exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the Holding Company Act on the basis that FPL Groups and FPLs businesses are predominantly intrastate in character and carried on substantially in a single state in which both are incorporated. Website Access to SEC Filings. FPL Group and FPL make their annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on the internet website, www.fplgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. FPL OPERATIONS General. FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group. FPL supplies electric service to a population of nearly eight million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. During 2002, FPL served approximately 4.0 million customer accounts. The percentage of FPL operating revenues by customer class were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Residential 55% 56% 55% Commercial 36% 38% 36% Industrial 3% 3% 3% Other, including the provision for retail rate refund and the net change in unbilled revenues 6% 3% 6% 100% 100% 100% FPL currently holds 173 franchise agreements with varying expiration dates to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida. FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. Regulation. FPLs retail operations provided approximately 99% of FPLs 2002 operating revenues. Retail operations are regulated by the FPSC which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC in various respects, including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. FPLs nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction and operation of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. Environmental. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources and other environmental matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. During 2002, FPL spent approximately $12 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. FPLs capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated at $100 million for 2003 through 2005, including approximately $39 million in 2003, and are included in projected capital expenditur es set forth in Capital Expenditures below. Environmental regulations are subject to change. The following is a discussion of emerging federal initiatives that could potentially affect FPL: Climate Change In 2002, President Bush announced new climate change initiatives for the United States, among which is a voluntary commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity of United States emissions by 18% by 2012. The Bush administration is currently seeking commitments from various industrial sectors and individual companies to reach this goal. FPL Group has responded to the administrations request by becoming a charter signatory to the Administrations Climate Leaders Program. In this voluntary program, FPL Group will inventory its greenhouse gas emissions and will negotiate with EPA to set a future emissions reduction target. FPL Group believes that the planned operation of its generating portfolio, along with its current efficiency initiatives and greenhouse gas management efforts, will allow it to achieve a reduction in its rate of emissions to generation (lbs/mwh). In addition to the voluntary initiative, the United States Congress is considering several legislative proposals that would establish new mandatory regulatory requirements and reduction targets for greenhouse gases. Based on reference data from government sources, FPL Group is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases measured by its rate of emissions to generation (lbs/mwh). However, these legislative proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL Groups generating units and or the financial impact to FPL Group and FPL could be material (either positive or negative), depending on the eventual structure of a mandatory program. Multi Pollutant Legislation The United States Congress and the Bush administration are considering several legislative proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and in some proposals, carbon dioxide. Based on reference data from government sources, FPL Group is among the lowest generators of these emissions when measured by its rate of emissions to generation (lbs/mwh). However, these multi pollutant proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL Groups generating units and or the financial impact to FPL Group and FPL could be material (either positive or negative), depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted. Retail Ratemaking. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms. The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPLs investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). The rate of return on rate base approximates FPLs weighted average cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and preferred stock and an allowed ROE. The FPSC monitors FPLs actual ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC. The FPSC does not provide assurance that the allowed ROE will be achieved. Base rates are determined in rate proceedings, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC, Public Counsel or a substantially affected party. In March 2002, the FPSC approved a new rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The 2002 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective April 15, 1999 through April 14, 2002. Both agreements include a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The 1999 2002 rate agreement allowed FPL at its discretion to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was required to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets based on future depreciation studies. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates and Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. During the term of the agreement, FPLs ROE was from time to time outside the 10% 12% authorized range. However, the revenue sharing mechanism described above was specified as the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. The agreement included provisions which limited depreciation rates and accruals for nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs to the then approved levels and limited amounts recoverable under the environmental clause during the term of that agreement. The 2002 2005 rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the 2002 2005 rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002 (a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund is limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL will not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL will continue to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The 2002 2005 rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. Under the 2002 2005 rate agreement, depreciation will be reduced on FPLs plant in service by $125 million in each year 2002 through 2005. In April 2002, the South Florida Hospital and Healthcare Association and certain hospitals filed a joint notice of administrative appeal with the FPSC and the Supreme Court of Florida appealing the FPSCs approval of the 2002 2005 rate agreement. The appellants contend that the FPSC rushed to judgment and approved the settlement without the benefit of any evidentiary record to support its actions, and requested that the Supreme Court remand the case to the FPSC for additional proceedings. Initial briefs, answer briefs and a reply brief were filed by the parties during 2002. Oral arguments are expected to take place in mid 2003. FPL intends to vigorously contest this appeal and believes that the FPSCs decision approving the 2002 2005 rate agreement will be upheld. Fuel costs are recovered through levelized charges per kwh established pursuant to the fuel clause and totaled $2.7 billion in 2002. These charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. During 2002, the FPSC approved a risk management fuel procurement program effective January 1, 2003. The program is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility and the results will be reviewed by the FPSC as part of the annual review of fuel costs. See Managements Discussion Results of Operations, Note 1 Regulation and Note 5. Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered through the capacity clause and base rates. In 2002, $506 million was recovered through the capacity clause. Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled $78 million in 2002 and were recovered through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. Costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 are recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. The 1999 2002 rate agreement limited recovery of costs through the environmental clause. There is no similar provision in the 2002 2005 rate agreement; consequently prudent environmental costs incurred during this period not included in base rates will be recoverable under the environmental clause. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. Competition. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2002, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred cost s in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Recently, these state restructuring efforts have diminished and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue a request for proposal. The request for proposal process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In 2002, FPL received approval to construct new generation at its Martin and Manatee sites. See System Capability and Load. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. In December 2001, the FPSC determined that the RTO as proposed was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. In March 2002, FPL, Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure of GridFlorida from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own its transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In September 2002, the FPSC approved many of the aspects of the modified RTO p roposal, allowing recovery of GridFloridas incremental costs through the capacity clause and setting a hearing date of October 31, 2002 on market design and other outstanding issues. In October 2002, Public Counsel filed a notice of administrative appeal with the Supreme Court of Florida seeking an appeal of the FPSCs order, which caused an automatic stay of the proceedings. On October 28, 2002, the FPSC ordered that the GridFlorida proceedings be held in abeyance pending Public Counsels appeal. On December 12, 2002, Public Counsel filed their brief. Public Counsel contends that the FPSC should not approve the ISO proposal because the FPSC cannot voluntarily abdicate its jurisdiction over retail transmission rates and transmission planning and the ISO will not be subject to the FPSCs jurisdiction. Oral arguments are scheduled for May 6, 2003. A ruling from the Supreme Court of Florida is expected in late 2003. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require FERC regulated entities, including FPL, that own, control or operate transmission facilities to hire an independent transmission provider, which can be an RTO such as GridFlorida for the operation of those facilities. The proposed rule also will require the independent transmission provider to administer various spot markets for the sale of electricity and ancillary services and to manage congestion on the transmission system using financial congestion rights. State regulators from the southeast and western states have expressed strong reservations about FERCs proposal. FPL is evaluating the proposed rule and is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on FPLs operations. The FERC has announced it will be issuing a &quot ;white paper" in April 2003 incorporating comments received on its proposed rule. The "white paper" will re examine the schedule, which had originally proposed full implementation of the standard market design by September 2004. The FERC will allow parties to file comments on the "white paper" before issuing its final order this fall. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. System Capability and Load. As of December 31, 2002, FPLs resources for serving load consisted of 20,938 mw, of which 17,641 mw are from FPL owned facilities (see Item 2. Properties Generating Facilities) and 3,297 mw are obtained through purchased power contracts. See Note 17 Contracts. Customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPLs service territory. FPL set a record all time summer energy peak on August 1, 2002, of 19,219 mw. Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. The highest peak FPL has served to date was a winter peak of 20,190 mw, which occurred on January 24, 2003. FPL had adequate resources available at the time of these peaks to meet customer demand. In 2000, with the FPSCs approval, FPL and two other Florida utilities voluntarily adopted a 20% reserve margin target to be achieved by the summer of 2004. FPLs projected reserve margin for summer of 2003 is expected to be 20%. This reserve margin will be achieved through the combination of output from FPLs generating units, purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of load management, which was estimated to be 1,474 mw at December 31, 2002. FPL expects to complete the addition of two new gas fired combustion turbines at its Fort Myers site and the repowering of Sanford Unit No. 4, which together will add approximately 1,300 mw by mid 2003. During 2002, FPL received approval from the FPSC to add a total of approximately 1,900 mw of natural gas combined cycle generation at its Martin and Manatee sites with a planned in service date of June 2005. In January 2003, CPV Gulfcoast, Ltd. filed a notice of appeal with the Supreme Court of Florida challenging the FPSCs approval. The expansion of Martin and Manatee is also subject to approval by a Siting Board (governor and cabinet) under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act with a decision expected to be issued by June 2003. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures at FPL consist of the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand. FPLs capital expenditures totaled $1.3 billion in 2002, $1.1 billion in 2001 and $1.3 billion in 2000. Capital expenditures for 2003 through 2007 are estimated to be as follows: 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total (millions) Generation $ 595 $ 605 $ 425 $ 200 $ 165 $ 1,990 Transmission 150 185 140 135 140 750 Distribution 510 520 510 515 525 2,580 General and other 110 135 115 125 120 605 Total $ 1,365 $ 1,445 $ 1,190 $ 975 $ 950 $ 5,925 These estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment, and actual capital expenditures may vary from this estimate. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources. Nuclear Operations. FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie. In June 2002, the NRC extended the operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which will allow operation of these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. FPL has not yet decided whether to exercise the option to operate past the original license expiration dates of 2012 and 2013. Nevertheless, FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. This decision will be made by 2007. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. The operating licenses for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 expire in 2016 and 2023, respectively. In 2001, FPL filed with the NRC applications for 20 year license extensions for the St. Lucie units and expects a ruling from the NRC in the fall of 2003. The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. The NRCs regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years prior to the projected end of plant operation. FPLs current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2016 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 beginning in 2023. See estimated cost data in Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant. In February 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to an NRC bulletin issued in August 2002, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including FPL, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each units scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. During the scheduled refueling outages for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in October 2002 and Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in March 2003, FPL performed visual and volumetric inspections and found no degradation associated with the reactor vessel heads. Visual inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during 2001 and at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 during 2002 revealed no degradation associated with the reactor vessel heads. FPL anticipates that it will replace the reactor vessel heads at all of its nuclear units over a three year period beginning in 2004 and has placed orders for long lead time components. The estimated cost for the reactor vessel heads is inc luded in capital expenditures above. Fuel. FPLs generating plants use a variety of fuels. See Item 2. Properties Generating Facilities and Note 17 Contracts. The diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve an economical fuel mix. FPL has four firm transportation contracts in place with FGT that together will satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units and the Fort Myers and Sanford additions currently under construction. The four existing contracts expire in 2015, 2021 and 2022, but each can be extended at FPLs option. To the extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from FGT based on pipeline availability. FPL has several short and medium term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPLs anticipated needs for natural gas. The remainder of FPLs gas requirements are purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos. 1 and 2, long term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel needs for those units. All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long term contracts. The remaining fuel requirements will be obtained in the spot market. FPLs oil requirements are obtained under short term contracts and in the spot market. FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. Currently, FPL is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the DOE. See Note 1 Nuclear Fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. Through December 2002, FPL has paid approximately $473 million in such fees to the DOEs nuclear waste fund. The DOE did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. In 1997, a court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the DOE could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the DOEs failure to perform its obligations. In 1998, FPL filed a lawsuit against the DOE seeking damages caused by the DOEs failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPLs nuclear power plants. The matter is pending. In the interim, FPL is investigating other alternatives to provide adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel. Based on current projections, FPL will lose its ability to store spent fuel on site for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in 2005, St. Lucie Unit No. 2 in 2007, Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in 2007 and Turkey Point Unit No. 4 in 2009. In addition, degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools at St. Lucie Unit No. 1 and Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. FPL has awarded contracts to install additional storage racks in its existing spent fuel pools at all four of its nuclear units, the estimated cost of which is included in capital expenditures above. Once installed, these racks will extend the storage capacity s uch that the ability to store spent fuel will not be lost until 2008 at St. Lucie Unit No. 1, 2012 at St. Lucie Unit No. 2, 2010 at Turkey Point Unit No. 3 and 2012 at Turkey Point Unit No. 4. FPL is pursuing various approaches to further expand spent fuel storage at the sites, including increasing rack space in its existing spent fuel pools and or developing the capacity to store spent fuel in dry storage containers. The dry storage containers could be located at FPLs nuclear plant sites and or at a facility operated by PFS in Utah. PFS is a consortium of eight utilities seeking to license, construct and operate an independent spent fuel storage facility. FPL joined the consortium in May 2000. PFS has filed a license application with the NRC. Hearings on the application have been completed. On March 10, 2003, the NRCs ASLB ruled that PFS must address the consequences of a hypothetical military aircraft accident into the proposed facility before such facility can be licensed. PFS has not decided wh ether to challenge the finding in an appeal to the NRC or whether to address the consequences in further proceedings before the ASLB. Licensing decisions on other issues litigated during the hearings are pending before the ASLB. In April 2002, the governor of Nevada submitted a Notice of Disapproval to Congress regarding President Bushs recommendation to develop Yucca Mountain as a nuclear waste depository. The Yucca Mountain site is the DOEs recommended location to store and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste. During May and July 2002, Congress overrode the disapproval notice through a majority vote of both houses. The President signed the joint resolution of Congress into law on July 23, 2002. The State of Nevada has initiated legal actions to attempt to block the project. Energy Marketing and Trading. EMT, a division of FPL, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPLs use in power generation and sells excess gas and electric power. EMT also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales and purchases. Substantially all of the results of EMTs activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 5. Electric and Magnetic Fields. In recent years, public, scientific and regulatory attention has been focused on possible adverse health effects of EMF. These fields are created whenever electricity flows through a power line or an appliance. Several epidemiological (i.e., statistical) studies have suggested a linkage between EMF and certain types of cancer, including childhood leukemia and adult lymphoma associated with occupational exposure; other studies have been inconclusive, contradicted earlier studies or have shown no such linkage. Neither these epidemiological studies nor clinical studies have produced any conclusive evidence that EMF does or does not cause adverse health effects. In 1999, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, at the culmination of a five year federally supported research effort, pronounced that the scientific support for an EMF cancer link is marginal and concluded that the proba bility that EMF exposure is truly a health hazard is small but cannot be completely discounted. In 2001, the IARC conducted an evaluation of power frequency EMF and cancer; it classified power frequency magnetic fields as "possibly carcinogenic" based on an association with childhood leukemia reported in some epidemiology studies. The IARC did not conclude that power frequency EMF cause or contribute to the development of childhood leukemia or any other cancer. In 2002, the California Department of Health Services submitted its EMF Risk Evaluation report to the California Public Utility Commission. The report concludes in part that "EMFs can cause some degree of increased risk of childhood leukemia, adult brain cancer, Lou Gehrigs Disease and miscarriage." The report also finds that the risk, while potentially low across the entire population, nonetheless may be sufficient to warrant regulatory attention. Florida has had EMF regulations in place for many years, and FPL believes it is in compliance with the FDEP regulations regarding EMF levels within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines. Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. It is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. Currently, there are no such changes proposed to the FDEP regulations. Employees. FPL had 9,612 employees at December 31, 2002. Approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that will expire October 31, 2004. FPL ENERGY OPERATIONS General. FPL Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate FPL Groups existing non rate regulated energy related operations. It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. FPL Energy owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. At December 31, 2002, FPL Energy had net generating capability totaling 7,250 mw, of which 6,700 mw consisted of ownership interests in operating independent power projects (see Item 2. Properties Generating Facilities) and 550 mw of leased capacity (see Managements Discussion Results of Operations FPL Energy). Generation capacity spans various regions thereby reducing seasonal volatility on a portfolio basis. At December 31, 2002, the percentage of capacity by NERC region or power pool was: NERC Region/Power Pool Percentage of Generation Capacity NEPOOL/NYPP (Northeast) 40% MAPP/MAIN/SPP/ERCOT (Central) 32% SERC/PJM (Mid Atlantic) 17% WECC (West) 11% Fuel sources for these projects were as follows: Fuel Source Percentage of Generation Capacity Natural Gas 44% Wind 24% Nuclear 14% Oil 11% Hydro 5% Other 2% FPL Energy is actively involved in managing more than 84% of its projects, which represent approximately 96% of the net generating capacity in which FPL Energy has an ownership interest. As a result of FPL Energys continued growth, capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $2.103 billion, $1.977 billion and $507 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2003 through 2007 are estimated to be as follows: 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total (millions) FPL Energy: Wind(a) $ 1,165 $ $ $ $ $ 1,165 Gas 405 65 10 70 15 565 Nuclear 20 20 25 15 15 95 Total $ 1,590 $ 85 $ 35 $ 85 $ 30 $ 1,825 (a) FPL Energy has projected capital expenditures for 1,200 mw of wind through 2003 when the production tax credits are scheduled to expire. FPL Energy is currently constructing five gas fired power plants with a total capacity of approximately 3,700 mw, and expects to add 700 to 1,200 mw of new wind generation by the end of 2003. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio growth to come from a mix of asset acquisitions and wind development (assuming the extension of the production tax credits beyond 2003). In addition to the five gas fired plants currently under construction, during 2002 FPL Energy had also been engaged in the development of various other natural gas projects. As a result of depressed economic conditions coupled with an oversupply of energy generating facilities in certain markets, projected profit margins for these projects had declined and were not sufficient to cover the cost of capital. Therefore, FPL Energy made a strategic decision during 2002 to substantially exit the fossil fueled greenfield power plant development business for the foreseeable future. As a result, development costs associated with these abandoned projects were written off to expense. Furthermore, FPL Energy realigned its organizational structure during 2002 to lower general and administrative expenses and took other actions associated with the restructuring. See Managements Discussion Results of Operations FPL Energy. Energy Marketing and Trading. PMI, a subsidiary of FPL Energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. PMI procures natural gas and oil for FPL Energys use in power generation and sells any excess gas. PMI also sells the output from FPL Energys plants which has not been sold under long term contracts and purchases replacement power. PMI uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of FPL Energys power generation assets. To a lesser extent, PMI engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. The results of PMIs activities are recognized in FPL Energys operating results. See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 Energy Trading and Note 5. Employees. FPL Energy had 1,832 employees at December 31, 2002. The IBEW and the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) represented approximately 7% and 11%, respectively, of FPL Energys employees. The collective bargaining agreement between an FPL Energy subsidiary and the IBEW expires on February 29, 2008 and the collective bargaining agreement between an FPL Energy subsidiary and the UWUA expires on December 1, 2003. Regulation. Currently, approximately 12% of FPL Energys net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the PURPA. FPL Energys qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels, biomass or waste product combustion. Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, the application of the Holding Company Act, many provisions of the Federal Power Act, and state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. FPL Energy also has ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act. These projects represent approximately 88% of FPL Energys net generating capacity. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. FPL Energys exempt wholesale gener ators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. While projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. Implementation of FERCs standard market design is not expected to have a significant impact on FPL Energys business. Nodal locational marginal pricing, which is one feature of standard market design, was previously implemented in PJM and was implemented in NEPOOL in March 2003. No time frame has been announced for implementation of standard market design in other regions. See FPL Operations Competition. Environmental. FPL Energy is subject to the same environmental laws and regulations and is affected by the same emerging issues included in the discussion of FPLs business (see FPL Operations Environmental). During 2002, FPL Energy spent approximately $70 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. FPL Energys capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $32 million for 2003 through 2005, including approximately $23 million in 2003 and are included in projected capital expenditures set forth in General above. Competition. Expanded competition in a relaxed regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Wholesale energy markets have experienced lower demand and lower wholesale electricity prices as a result of weather and economic conditions and the oversupply of generation in certain regions. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. As of December 31, 2002, FPL Energy has 77% of its on peak capacity under contract. For 2004, 51% of on peak capacity is under contract. Contracting electrical output has become progressively more difficult, as a result of overcapacity in certain regions and diminished m arket liquidity due to fewer creditworthy counterparties. FPL Energy expects, as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Portfolio by Category. FPL Energys assets can be categorized into the following three groups: wind assets, non wind assets under long term contract and merchant assets. Wind Assets At December 31, 2002, FPL Energy had ownership interests in 28 operating wind plants, with a combined capacity of 1,745 mw (net ownership). Approximately 81% of FPL Energys net ownership of wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act. The remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under PURPA. These facilities are located in ten states, thereby reducing weather related performance risk on a portfolio basis. FPL Energy operates all but six of these wind facilities. All facilities are under long term contracts with utilities and power marketers, which expire from 2011 to 2027. In 2002 and 2003, all wind energy has been contracted under fixed price agreements. During 2002, FPL Energy added six wind projects to its portfolio, totaling approximately 324 mw. This included the acquisition of 123 mw of operating plants and the construction of 201 mw of new capacity. At December 31, 2002, FPL Energy had 434 mw of new wind facilities under construction or in advanced development, which are expected to be in service by December 2003. Non Wind Assets Under Long Term Contract At December 31, 2002, FPL Energy had 1,255 mw of non wind assets under long term contract, essentially all of which were under long term power sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2021. Approximately 1,096 mw of this capacity is gas fired generation. The remaining 159 mw uses a variety of fuels, including coal, wood and solar. Of these facilities 44% have qualifying facility status under PURPA and 56% have received exempt wholesale generator status under PURPA. Essentially all of the qualifying facilities are contracted under firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2017. Merchant Assets Merchant assets are plants whose entire output has not been sold under long term contracts. The output from these merchant plants is sold through a combination of short to medium term contracts and sales in wholesale markets. The following discussion details FPL Energys merchant assets by region: Northeast Region and Mid Atlantic Region FPL Energys current portfolio of assets in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions includes 2,427 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation and 550 mw of leased capacity from a gas fired facility. Contracted fuel supply arrangements, for the leased capacity, include firm interstate natural gas transportation and firm "burner tip" natural gas supply obligations. The merchant assets in this region include 1,030 mw of peak generating facilities. In addition, there are approximately 668 mw under construction in SERC. The output of this 668 mw facility has been sold through a contract which provides for the purchase of 50% of the facilitys output, commencing in June 2003 through 2010 and for the remaining 50% commencing in June 2004 through 2011. Under the terms of this contract the counterparty is responsible for providing the natural gas required to operate the plant. See Nuclear Operations. Central Region FPL Energys current asset portfolio includes 1,273 mw of gas fired generation in ERCOT. There are approximately 1,700 mw of new generation under construction in ERCOT. Through 2003, 75% of FPL Energys on peak generating capacity, including that under construction, in ERCOT is under contract. Substantially all on peak requirements for gas transportation are under contract through 2005. Currently, all gas supply is purchased on the spot market. However, PMI uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases. FPL Energy is currently pursuing long term gas supply contracts for the ERCOT assets. Western Region FPL Energys current portfolio of assets includes a 517 mw natural gas facility, currently under construction, which is expected to be in commercial operation by mid 2003. FPL Energy is currently negotiating gas supply and power sales agreements. Nuclear Operations. In November 2002, an FPL Energy subsidiary purchased an 88.23% undivided interest in Seabrook, located in New Hampshire. FPL Energys net ownership interest in Seabrooks capacity consists of 1,024 mw of nuclear generation. FPL Energy is responsible for all plant operations. The current operating license for Seabrook expires in 2026. However, FPL Energy intends to seek approval from the NRC to extend the units license to recapture the period of non operation from 1986 to 1990, in addition to a 20 year license extension. If granted, these approvals would extend the term of the NRC operating license for Seabrook to 2050. FPL Energy assumed responsibility for the ultimate decommissioning of the plant, the cost of which will be shared on a pro rate basis by the owners. See estimated decommissioning cost data in Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant. In February 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to an NRC bulletin issued in August 2002, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including Seabrook, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. Seabrook will be required to perform 100% visual and non visual inspections in 2006. Subsequent inspections for Seabrook will be required every third outage for visuals, and every fourth outage for non visuals. Seabrook has several contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2003 to 2008. See Note 17 Contracts. Currently, Seabrook is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the DOE. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. From the time of the acquisition through December 2002, FPL Energy has accrued approximately $1.4 million in such fees to the Nuclear Waste Fund. For details on the current status of permanent fuel storage with the DOE see FPL Operations Fuel. Based on current projections, FPL Energy will lose its ability to store spent fuel at Seabrook as early as 2009. FPL Energy is investigating other alternatives to expand its spent nuclear fuel storage capacity at Seabrook. OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet was formed in January 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Groups fiber optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations. Accordingly, in January 2000, FPLs existing fiber optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. FPL FiberNet leases wholesale fiber optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other new and existing customers, primarily telephone, cable television, internet and other telecommunications companies. Dark fiber in the metro market is also sold to third parties. FPL FiberNets primary business focus is the Florida metro market. Metro networks cover Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando and Jacksonville. FPL FiberNet also has a long haul network within Florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates. At December 31, 2002, FPL Fiber Nets network consisted of approximately 2,500 route miles, which interconnected major cities throughout Florida. Due to the changing telecommunications market, FPL FiberNet completed valuation studies to assess the recoverability of its assets and as a result, in 2002, recorded charges of approximately $104 million ($64 million after tax). Of this amount, $85 million ($52 million after tax) represents an impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment, the fair value of which was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, FPL FiberNet decided not to pursue the planned build out of metro fiber rings in certain cities, and restructuring charges of $19 million ($12 million after tax) were recognized related to the write off of development costs and inventory. At December 31, 2002, FPL Groups investment in FPL FiberNet totaled approximately $256 million. During 2002, FPL FiberNet invested approximately $15 million to expand its network. Over the next five years, FPL FiberNet plans to invest a total of approximately $50 million towards continued growth in the network. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS (a) Name Age Position Effective Date Dennis P. Coyle 64 General Counsel and Secretary of FPL Group June 1, 1991 General Counsel and Secretary of FPL July 1, 1991 Paul I. Cutler 43 Treasurer of FPL Group February 19, 2003 Treasurer of FPL February 18, 2003 K. Michael Davis 56 Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL Group May 13, 1991 Vice President, Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL July 1, 1991 Moray P. Dewhurst 48 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL Group July 17, 2001 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL July 19, 2001 Paul J. Evanson 61 President of FPL January 9, 1995 Lewis Hay III 47 President and Chief Executive Officer of FPL Group June 11, 2001 Chairman of the Board of FPL Group January 1, 2002 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of FPL January 1, 2002 Lawrence J. Kelleher 55 Vice President, Human Resources of FPL Group May 13, 1991 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of FPL July 1, 1999 Robert L. McGrath 49 Senior Vice President, Engineering and Construction of FPL November 15, 2002 Armando J. Olivera 53 Senior Vice President, Power Systems of FPL July 1, 1999 James L. Robo 40 President of FPL Energy July 26, 2002 Antonio Rodriguez 60 Senior Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPL July 1, 1999 John A. Stall 48 Senior Vice President, Nuclear Division of FPL June 4, 2001 (a) Executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. Except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. The business experience of the executive officers is as follows: Mr. Cutler was assistant treasurer of FPL Group from May 1997 to May 1998 and from May 1999 to February 2003. He was assistant treasurer of FPL from May 1997 to February 2003. Mr. Cutler was also assistant secretary of FPL Group and FPL from December 1997 to February 2003. Mr. Dewhurst was senior partner of Dean & Company, a management consulting and investment firm that he co founded in 1993. Mr. Hay was president of FPL Energy from March 2000 to December 2001. From July 1999 to March 2000, he was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL. From May 1999 to July 1999, Mr. Hay was president of LSME Acquisition Co., LLC, a specific purpose acquisition company. Prior to that, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of U.S. Foodservice, Inc., a food service distributor. Mr. Kelleher was senior vice president, human resources of FPL from July 1991 to July 1999. Mr. McGrath was treasurer of FPL Group and FPL from January 2000 to November 2002. He was also vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Energy from June 2000 to November 2002. Prior to that, Mr. McGrath was assistant treasurer of FPL Group and FPL. Mr. Olivera was vice president, distribution of FPL from February 1997 to July 1999. Mr. Robo was vice president of corporate development and strategy of FPL Group from March 2002 to July 2002. He was president and CEO of TIP, a GE Capital Company that provides trailer and storage equipment services, and GE Capital Modular Space, a supplier of mobile and modular buildings, from December 1999 to March 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Robo was president and CEO of GE Mexico. Mr. Rodriguez was vice president, power delivery of FPL from February 1997 to July 1999. Mr. Stall was vice president of nuclear engineering of FPL from January 2000 to June 2001. Prior to that, he was plant vice president at St. Lucie. Item 2. Properties FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate for their operations. At December 31, 2002, the electric generating, transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 44%, 13%, 37% and 6%, respectively, of FPLs gross investment in electric utility plant in service. Generating Facilities. At December 31, 2002, FPL Group had the following generating facilities: Facility Location No. of Units Fuel Net Capability (mw)(a) FPL: Nuclear St. Lucie Hutchinson Island, FL 2 Nuclear 1,553 (b) Turkey Point Florida City, FL 2 Nuclear 1,386 Steam turbines Cape Canaveral Cocoa, FL 2 Oil/Gas 806 Cutler Miami, FL 2 Gas 206 Manatee Parrish, FL 2 Oil 1,620 Martin Indiantown, FL 2 Oil/Gas 1,617 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 4 Oil/Gas 1,212 Riviera Riviera Beach, FL 2 Oil/Gas 565 St. Johns River Power Park Jacksonville, FL 2 Coal/Petroleum Coke 254 (c) Sanford Lake Monroe, FL 1 Oil/Gas 138 (d) Scherer Monroe County, GA 1 Coal 658 (e) Turkey Point Florida City, FL 2 Oil/Gas 800 Combined cycle Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 1 Gas 1,423 Lauderdale Dania, FL 2 Gas/Oil 854 Martin Indiantown, FL 2 Gas 935 Putnam Palatka, FL 2 Gas/Oil 498 Sanford Lake Monroe, FL 1 Gas 910 Simple cycle combustion turbines Martin Indiantown, FL 1 Gas/Oil 298 Gas turbines/diesels Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 12 Oil 636 Lauderdale Dania, FL 24 Oil/Gas 840 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 12 Oil/Gas 420 Turkey Point Florida City, FL 5 Oil 12 TOTAL 17,641 FPL Energy: East Northeast: Bayswater Far Rockaway, NY 1 Gas 54 Maine Various ME 9 Oil 755 Maine Various ME 89 Hydro 373 Seabrook Seabrook, NH 1 Nuclear 1,024 (f) Investment in joint venture MA 1 Gas 150 Total Northeast 2,356 Mid Atlantic: Doswell Ashland, VA 5 Gas 879 Green Mountain Somerset County, PA 8 Wind 10 Marcus Hook 50 Marcus Hook, PA 1 Gas 50 Mountaineer Wind Energy Center Thomas, WV 44 Wind 66 Investments in joint ventures Various (g) Various 251 Total Mid Atlantic 1,256 West Central: Cerro Gordo Ventura, IA 55 Wind 42 Delaware Mountain Culberson County, TX 40 Wind 30 Gray County Montezuma, KS 170 Wind 112 Hancock County Hancock County, IA 148 Wind 98 Indian Mesa McCarney, TX 125 Wind 83 King Mountain Upton County, TX 214 Wind 278 Lake Benton II Ruthton, MN 138 Wind 104 Lamar Power Partners Paris, TX 2 Gas 990 Montfort Montfort, WI 20 Wind 30 Southwest Mesa McCamey, TX 107 Wind 75 Woodward Mountain McCamey, TX 242 Wind 160 Investment in joint venture Austin, TX 2 Gas 283 Total Central 2,285 West: Stateline WA/OR border 454 Wind 300 Vansycle Helix, OR 38 Wind 25 Investments in joint ventures Various CA (h) Various 478 Total West 803 TOTAL 6,700 (a) Represents FPLs and FPL Energys net ownership interest in plant capacity. (b) Excludes Orlando Utilities Commissions and the FMPAs combined share of approximately 15% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2. (c) Represents FPLs 20% ownership interest in each of St. Johns River Power Park Units Nos. 1 and 2, which are jointly owned with the JEA. (d) Unit 4 was retired from service in July 2002 and expected to return to service as a combined cycle facility in May 2003. (e) Represents FPLs approximately 76% ownership of Scherer Unit No. 4, which is jointly owned with the JEA. (f) Excludes Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Companys, Taunton Municipal Lighting Plants and Hudson Light & Power Departments combined share of 11.77%. (g) Represents plants using fuel and technology such as gas and waste to energy. (h) Includes multiple wind projects totaling 332 mw. The remaining 146 mw are provided by plants with less than 50 mw each using fuels and technologies such as solar, gas, coal and petroleum coke. Transmission and Distribution. At December 31, 2002, FPL owned and operated 516 substations and the following electric transmission and distribution lines: Nominal Voltage Overhead Lines Pole Miles Trench and Submarine Cables Miles 500 kv 1,105 (a) 230 kv 2,316 31 138 kv 1,451 50 115 kv 671 69 kv 164 14 Less than 69kv 40,679 23,293 Total 46,386 23,388 (a) Includes approximately 75 miles owned jointly with the JEA. Character of Ownership. Substantially all of FPLs properties are subject to the lien of FPLs mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by FPL. The majority of FPL Groups principal properties are held by FPL in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions, none of which is of such a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties. FPL Energys Doswell generating facility is encumbered by liens against its assets securing bonds issued in July 2001. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 16. Some of FPLs electric lines are located on land not owned in fee but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained from owners of private property. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In November 1999, the Attorney General of the United States, on behalf of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Georgia Power Company and other subsidiaries of The Southern Company for certain alleged violations of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) provisions and the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) of the Clean Air Act. In May 2001, the EPA amended its complaint. The amended complaint alleges, among other things, that Georgia Power Company constructed and is continuing to operate Scherer Unit No. 4, in which FPL owns a 76% interest, without obtaining a PSD permit, without complying with NSPS requirements, and without applying best available control technology for nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides and particulate matter as required by the Clean Air Act. It also alleges that unspecified major modifications have been made at Scherer Unit No. 4 that require its compliance with the aforementio ned Clean Air Act provisions. The EPA seeks injunctive relief requiring the installation of best available control technology and civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each violation from an unspecified date after June 1, 1975 through January 30, 1997, and $27,500 per day for each violation thereafter. Georgia Power Company has answered the amended complaint, asserting that it has complied with all requirements of the Clean Air Act, denying the plaintiffs allegations of liability, denying that the plaintiff is entitled to any of the relief that it seeks and raising various other defenses. In June 2001, the federal district court stayed discovery and administratively closed the case pending resolution of the EPAs motion for consolidation of discovery in several Clean Air Act cases that was filed with a Multi District Litigation (MDL) panel. In August 2001, the MDL panel denied the motion for consolidation. In September 2001, the EPA moved that the federal district court reopen this case for purpos es of discovery. Georgia Power Company has opposed that motion asking that the case remain closed until the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals rules on the Tennessee Valley Authoritys (TVA) appeal of an EPA administrative order relating to legal issues that are also central to this case. In January 2002, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals determined that it has jurisdiction to review the EPAs administrative order and will now move to the merits of the TVAs appeal. In August 2002, the federal district court denied without prejudice the EPAs motion to reopen. In November 2001, J. W. and Ernestine M. Thomas, Chester and Marie Jenkins, and Ray Norman and Jack Teague, as Co Personal Representatives on behalf of the Estate of Robert L. Johns, filed suit against FPL Group, FPL, FPL FiberNet, FPL Group Capital and FPL Investments, Inc. in the Circuit Court for Suwanee County, Florida. This action is purportedly on behalf of all property owners in Florida (excluding railroad and public rights of way) whose property is encumbered by easements in favor of defendants, and on whose property defendants have installed or intend to install fiber optic cable which defendants currently lease, license or convey or intend to lease, license or convey for non electric transmission or distribution purposes. The lawsuit alleges that FPLs easements do not permit the installation and use of fiber optic cable for general communication purposes. The plaintiffs have asserted claims for unlawful detainer, unjust enrichment and constructive trust and seek injunctive relief and compensatory damages. In May 2002, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, adding allegations regarding the installation of wireless communications equipment on some easements, and adding a claim for declaratory relief. In July 2002, defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint for, among other things, the failure to state a valid cause of action was denied. Defendants have filed an answer and affirmative defenses to the amended complaint. The parties are pursuing discovery regarding class certification. In August 2001, FMPA filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (DC Circuit) a petition for review asking the DC Circuit to reverse and remand orders of the FERC denying FMPAs request for credits for transmission facilities owned by FMPA members. The transmission credits sought by FMPA would offset the transmission charges that FPL bills FMPA for network transmission service to FMPAs member cities. FMPA member cities have been taking network transmission service under FPLs open access transmission tariff (OATT) since the mid 1990s. In the orders appealed by FMPA, FERC ruled that FMPA would be entitled to credits for any FMPA facilities that were "integrated" with the FPL transmission system. Based on the evidence submitted, FERC concluded that none of the FMPA facilities met the integration test and, therefore, FMPA was not entitled to credits against FPLs charges for transmission service. On January 21, 2003, the DC Circuit upheld FERCs order denying FMPA credits for its facilities, finding that substantial evidence supported FERCs conclusion that FMPAs facilities do not satisfy the integration test. FMPA since has requested that FERC decide the crediting issue again in a separate FERC proceeding. That proceeding dates back to a filing by FPL on March 19, 1993, as completed on July 26, 1993, of a comprehensive restructuring of its then existing tariff structure. A FERC administrative law judge issued an order in that proceeding on December 13, 1995. The judges order, which did not address credits, is currently pending at FERC on rehearing. FPL has argued that, particularly in light of the DC Circuits order, FERC should not issue another order addressing FMPAs request for credits. If FERC does decide the crediting issue in this separate proceeding, and reverses its previous finding that FMPA is not entitled to transmission credits, FMPA is likely to seek refunds for amounts collected from FMPA member cities taking service under FPLs OATT. FPL estimates that through December 31, 2002 its maximum exposure to refunds, including interest, is approximately $50 million to $60 million. In January 2002, Roy Oorbeek and Richard Berman filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against FPL Group (as an individual and nominal defendant); all its current directors (except James L. Camaren and Frank G. Zarb); certain former directors; and certain current and former officers of FPL Group and FPL, including James L. Broadhead, Lewis Hay III, Dennis P. Coyle, Paul J. Evanson and Lawrence J. Kelleher. The lawsuit alleges that the proxy statements relating to shareholder approval of FPL Groups Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and FPL Groups proposed, but unconsummated, merger with Entergy Corporation (Entergy) were false and misleading because they did not affirmatively state that payments made to certain officers under FPL Groups LTIP upon shareholder approval of the merger would be retained by the officers even if the merger with Entergy was not consummated and did not state that under some circumstances payments made pursuant to F PL Groups LTIP might not be deductible by FPL Group for federal income tax purposes. It also alleges that FPL Groups LTIP required either consummation of the merger as a condition to the payments or the return of the payments if the transaction did not close, and that the actions of the director defendants in approving the proxy statements, causing the payments to be made, and failing to demand their return constitute corporate waste. The plaintiffs seek to have the shareholder votes approving FPL Groups LTIP and the merger declared null and void, the return to FPL Group of $62 million of payments received by the officers, compensatory damages of $92 million (including the $62 million of payments received by the officers) from all defendants (except FPL Group) and attorneys fees. FPL Groups board of directors established a special committee to investigate a demand by another shareholder that the board take action to obtain the return of the payments made to the officers and expanded that investigatio n to include the allegations in the Oorbeek and Berman complaint. In March 2002, William M. Klein, by Stephen S. Klein under power of attorney, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against FPL Group (as nominal defendant); all its current directors (except James L. Camaren and Frank G. Zarb); certain former directors; and certain current and former officers of FPL Group and FPL, including James L. Broadhead, Paul J. Evanson, Lewis Hay III and Dennis P. Coyle. The lawsuit alleges that the payments made to certain officers under FPL Groups LTIP upon shareholder approval of the proposed merger with Entergy were improper and constituted breaches of fiduciary duties by the individual defendants because the LTIP required consummation of the merger as a condition to the payments. The plaintiff seeks the return to FPL Group of the payments received by the officers ($62 million); contribution, restitution and or damages from the individual defendants; and attorneys fees. These allegations also were referred to the special committee of FPL Groups board of directors investigating the allegations in the Oorbeek and Berman lawsuit. In August 2002, the special committee filed under seal with the court its report of its investigation. The report concluded that pursuit of the claims identified by the plaintiffs in the Oorbeek and Berman and the Klein lawsuits is not in the best interest of FPL Group or its shareholders generally, and recommended that FPL Group seek dismissal of the lawsuits. After reviewing the special committees report, FPL Groups board of directors (with only independent directors participating) concluded likewise. In September 2002, FPL Group, as nominal defendant, filed the special committees report in the public docket and filed with the court a Statement of Position setting forth the special committees and the boards conclusions and authorizing the filing of a motion to dismiss. The Statement of Position also reported that during the course of the special committees investigation of the allegations in the lawsuits a separate question arose concerning the interpretation of t he provisions of the LTIP pursuant to which the payments to eight senior officers were calculated. The board, the affected officers (two of whom have retired from FPL Group), and their respective legal counsel are discussing resolution of the issue. Any change from the original interpretation could result in a repayment to FPL Group of up to approximately $9 million. In February 2003, Donald E. and Judith B. Phillips filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida against FPL Group (as nominal defendant); all its current directors (except James L. Camaren and Frank G. Zarb); certain former directors; and certain current and former officers of FPL Group and FPL, including James L. Broadhead, Paul J. Evanson, Lewis Hay III, Dennis P. Coyle and Lawrence J. Kelleher. The lawsuit alleges that the proxy statements relating to shareholder approval of FPL Groups LTIP and FPL Groups proposed, but unconsummated, merger with Entergy were false and misleading because they did not affirmatively state that payments made to certain officers under FPL Groups LTIP upon shareholder approval of the merger would be retained by the officers even if the merger with Entergy was not consummated and did not state that under some circumstances payments made pursuant to FPL Groups LTIP might not be deductible by FPL Group for federal income tax purposes. It also alleges that FPL Groups LTIP required either consummation of the merger as a condition to the payments or the return of the payments if the transaction did not close, and that the actions of the director defendants in approving the proxy statements, causing the payments to be made, and failing to demand their return constitute corporate waste. The plaintiffs seek to have the shareholder votes approving FPL Groups LTIP and the merger declared null and void, the return to FPL Group of $62 million of payments received by the officers, compensatory damages of $92 million (including the $62 million of payments received by the officers) from all defendants (except FPL Group) and attorneys fees. In February 2003, Scott and Rebecca Finestone brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son Zachary Finestone in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida alleging that their son has developed cancer (neuroblastoma) as a result of the release and or dissipation into the air, water, soil and underground areas of radioactive and non radioactive hazardous materials, including strontium 90, and the release of other toxic materials from FPLs St. Lucie nuclear power plant. The complaint includes counts against FPL for strict liability for allegedly engaging in an ultra hazardous activity and for alleged negligence in operating the plant in a manner that allowed emissions of the foregoing materials and failing to limit its release of nuclear fission products as prescribed by federal and state laws and regulations. The plaintiffs seek damages in excess of $1 million. In March 2003, James J. and Lori Bradstreet brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son, Matthew Bradstreet, in the Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit in and for Brevard County, Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies, the American Dental Association, the Florida Dental Association, FPL and the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC), alleging that their son has suffered toxic neurological effects from mercury poisoning. The sources of mercury exposure are alleged to be vaccines containing a preservative called thimerosal that were allegedly manufactured and distributed by the drug companies, mercury amalgam dental fillings, and emissions from FPL and OUC power plants in Florida, including Brevard County. The complaint includes counts against all defendants for civil battery and against FPL for alleged negligence in operating the plants such that the son was exposed to mercury and other heavy metals emissions. The damages demanded from FPL are for injuries and losses allegedly suffered by the son as a result of his exposure to the plants mercury emissions and the parents alleged pain and suffering, medical expenses, loss of wages, and loss of their sons services and companionship. No amount of damages is specified. FPL has not yet responded to the complaint but expects to do so in the near future. In the event that FPL Group and FPL do not prevail in these lawsuits, there may be a material adverse effect on their financial statements. However, FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the pending litigation discussed above and are vigorously defending the lawsuits. Management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from the proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the financial statements. In addition to those legal proceedings discussed herein, FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are involved in a number of other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of their businesses. While management is unable to predict with certainty the outcome of these other legal proceedings and claims, it is not expected that their ultimate resolution, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the financial statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Common Stock Data. All of FPLs common stock is owned by FPL Group. FPL Groups common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter during the past two years are as follows: 2002 2001 Quarter High Low High Low First $ 60.10 $ 51.13 $ 71.63 $ 54.81 Second $ 65.31 $ 56.30 $ 63.15 $ 54.55 Third $ 60.08 $ 45.00 $ 60.50 $ 51.21 Fourth $ 61.40 $ 48.35 $ 57.28 $ 52.16 Approximate Number of Stockholders. As of the close of business on February 28, 2003, there were 36,825 holders of record of FPL Groups common stock. Dividends. Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of FPL Group during the past two years in the following amounts: Quarter 2002 2001 First $ 0.58 $ 0.56 Second $ 0.58 $ 0.56 Third $ 0.58 $ 0.56 Fourth $ 0.58 $ 0.56 The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Groups common stock are within the sole discretion of FPL Groups board of directors. The board of directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of FPL Groups financial position and results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions and any other factors the board deems relevant. The ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. There are no restrictions in effect that currently limit FPLs ability to pay dividends to FPL Group. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 14 Common Stock Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 SELECTED DATA OF FPL GROUP (millions, except per share amounts): Operating revenues $ 8,311 $ 8,326 $ 7,062 $ 6,438 $ 6,661 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 695 (a) $ 781 (b) $ 704 (c) $ 697 (d) $ 664 Cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, net of income taxes of $143 $ (222 ) $ $ $ $ Net income $ 473 (e) $ 781 (b) $ 704 (c) $ 697 (d) $ 664 Earnings per share of common stock: Earnings per share before cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142 $ 4.02 (a) $ 4.63 (b) $ 4.14 (c) $ 4.07 (d) $ 3.85 Cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142 $ (1.28 ) $ $ $ $ Earnings per share $ 2.74 (e) $ 4.63 (b) $ 4.14 (c) $ 4.07 (d) $ 3.85 Earnings per share of common stock assuming dilution: Earnings per share before cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142 $ 4.01 (a) $ 4.62 (b) $ 4.14 (c) $ 4.07 (d) $ 3.85 Cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142 $ (1.28 ) $ $ $ $ Earnings per share $ 2.73 (e) $ 4.62 (b) $ 4.14 (c) $ 4.07 (d) $ 3.85 Dividends paid per share of common stock $ 2.32 $ 2.24 $ 2.16 $ 2.08 $ 2.00 Total assets $ 19,790 $ 17,463 $ 15,300 $ 13,441 $ 12,029 Long term debt, excluding current maturities $ 5,790 $ 4,858 $ 3,976 $ 3,478 $ 2,347 Obligations of FPL under capital lease, excluding current maturities $ 140 $ 133 $ 127 $ 157 $ 146 SELECTED DATA OF FPL (millions): Operating revenues $ 7,378 $ 7,477 $ 6,361 $ 6,057 $ 6,366 Net income available to FPL Group $ 717 $ 679 (f) $ 607 (f) $ 576 (d) $ 616 Total assets $ 12,637 $ 11,924 $ 12,020 $ 10,608 $ 10,748 Long term debt, excluding current maturities $ 2,364 $ 2,579 $ 2,577 $ 2,079 $ 2,191 Energy sales (kwh) 98,605 93,488 91,969 88,067 89,362 Energy sales: Residential 51.6 % 50.9 % 50.4 % 50.2 % 50.9 % Commercial 40.6 40.6 40.2 40.3 38.8 Industrial 4.1 4.4 4.1 4.5 4.4 Interchange power sales 1.8 2.2 3.1 3.0 3.2 Other (g) 1.9 1.9 2.2 2.0 2.7 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Approximate 60 minute peak load (mw) (h): Summer season 19,219 18,754 17,808 17,615 17,897 Winter season 20,190 17,585 18,219 17,057 16,802 Average number of customer accounts (thousands): Residential 3,566 3,491 3,414 3,332 3,266 Commercial 435 427 415 405 397 Industrial 16 15 16 16 15 Other 3 2 3 3 2 Total 4,020 3,935 3,848 3,756 3,680 Average price per kwh (cents) (i) 7.32 8.05 6.86 6.87 7.13 (a) Includes impairment and restructuring charges, charges related to certain wind projects and leveraged leases, a favorable settlement of litigation with the IRS and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non managed hedges. (b) Includes merger related expenses and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non managed hedges. Excluding these items, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share (assuming dilution) would have been $792 million and $4.69, respectively. (c) Includes merger related expenses. Excluding these expenses, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share (assuming dilution) would have been $745 million and $4.38, respectively. (d) Includes effects of gains on divestiture of cable investments, impairment loss and litigation settlement. Excluding these items, FPL Groups net income and earnings per share (assuming dilution) would have been $681 million and $3.98, respectively. Excluding the litigation settlement, FPLs net income available to FPL Group would have been $618 million. (e) Includes the cumulative effect of an accounting change, impairment and restructuring charges, charges related to certain wind projects and leveraged leases, a favorable settlement of litigation with the IRS and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non managed hedges. Excluding these items, FPL Groups net income would have been $831 million and earnings per share (assuming dilution) would have been $4.80. (f) Includes merger related expenses. Excluding these expenses, FPLs net income available to FPL Group would have been $695 million in 2001 and $645 million in 2000. (g) Includes the net change in unbilled sales. (h) Winter season includes November and December of the current year and January to March of the following year. (i) Excludes interchange power sales, net change in unbilled revenues, deferrals/recoveries under cost recovery clauses and the provision for retail rate refund. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to exercise judgment and make estimates and assumptions where amounts are not subject to precise measurement or are dependent on future events. Critical accounting policies and estimates, which are important to the portrayal of both FPL Groups and FPLs financial condition and results of operations and which require complex, subjective judgments are as follows: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities On January 1, 2001, FPL Group and FPL adopted FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities," as amended by FAS 137 and FAS 138 (collectively, FAS 133). FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets and related contracts. To a lesser extent, FPL Group also engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected favorable price movements. These accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models. The estimation of fair value for long term contracts requires the use of internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the prices in the contract and the forward prices. The market for electricity in the first one to two years of a contract is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed. Factors used in developing forward curves for el ectricity include the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel and capacity clauses. In the non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless certain hedge accounting criteria are met. For those transactions for which hedge accounting can be applied, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (a component of shareholders equity) rather than being recognized in current earnings. Since FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and, from time to time, issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133. In particular, much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from the provisions of FAS 133. Despite the large volume of implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance does not provide specific guidance on all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations. The interpretation of FAS 133 continues to evolve. One possible result of changes in interpretation could be that certain contracts would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. See Note 5. Accounting for Pensions and Other Post Employment Benefits FPL Group and its subsidiaries sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits) for substantially all employees. Both the pension and life insurance plans have funded trusts dedicated to providing the benefits. FPL Groups pension income net of the cost of other benefits was approximately $82 million, $84 million and $89 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $73 million, $77 million and $85 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of other benefits are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years, assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4.5% for 2002 and 5.5% for 2001 and 2000, and a weighted average discount rate used in determining the benefit obligations of 6.00% and 6.25% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based on current health care costs (as related to other benefits), the projected 2003 trend assumptions used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the plans are 10% for all age groups. The rate is assumed to decrease over the next ten years to the ultimate trend rate of 5% for all age groups and remain at that level thereafter. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the market place. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year long term median returns for a portfolio with a 50/50 equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds. FPL Group also considered its historical 10 year and 20 year compounded returns which have been in excess of these broad equity and bond benchmark indices. FPL Group believes that 7.75% is a reasonable long term rate of return on its plan assets, despite the recent market downturn. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market related value of assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% (from 7.75% to 7.25%) would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $13 million ($11 million for FPL). Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $5 million ($4 million for FPL). Lowering the salary increase assumption by 0.5% would have increased FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $2 million ($2 million for FPL). Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. An increase or decrease of 1% in assumed health care cost trend rates would have a corresponding effect on the service and interest cost components and the accumulated obligation of other benefits of approximately $1 million and $8 million, respectively. The fair value of plan assets has decreased from $2.5 billion at September 30, 2001 to $2.4 billion at September 30, 2002 for the pension plan and from $74 million at September 30, 2001 to $45 million at September 30, 2002 for other benefits. Despite the recent reductions in the funded status of FPL Groups pension plan, management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the pension plan in the near future. FPL Group does not anticipate making cash contributions to the postretirement plans during 2003 but is studying the feasibility of transferring pension plan assets to fund claims associated with retiree medical benefits, as allowed by current tax law. See Note 3. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Under that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement FPLs current plans provide for prompt dismantlement of the Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing upon license expiration in 2012 and 2013. In June 2002, the NRC approved extension of the operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which will allow operation of these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. FPL has not yet decided whether to exercise the option to operate past the original license expiration dates. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed upon license expiration in 2016 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 when its license expires in 2023. In 2001, FPL filed with the NRC applications for 20 year license extensions for the St. Lucie units and expects a ruling from the NRC in the fall of 2003. FPL accrues and funds a reserve for nuclear decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. The FPSC approved new decommissioning studies in 2001 and, effective in May 2002, reduced the annual decommissioning accrual from $85 million to approximately $79 million. The studies assume that FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending removal to a U.S. government facility. The studies indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is $6.4 billion, or $2.0 billion in 2002 dollars. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $1.7 billion. Upon the adoption of FAS 143 on January 1, 2003, the accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning was moved from the accumulated depreciation caption on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets to a noncurrent liability, the amount of the obligation was adjusted to reflect the then current fair value of the obligation, an asset was recognized for the undepreciated present value of the initial obligation and any difference was recognized as a regulatory liability. FPL also accrues the estimated cost of dismantling its fossil fuel plants over the expected service life of each unit. However, unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. Dismantlement studies are filed with the FPSC at least every four years. The most recent studies became effective January 1, 1999 and indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $482 million. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for fossil dismantlement was $260 million. The liability that was recognized for obligations associated with the retirement of FPLs fossil fuel plants under FAS 143 was not significant. Upon acquisition of its interest in Seabrook, FPL Energy recorded a liability for the present value of Seabrooks expected decommissioning costs. The liability will be accreted using the interest method over an assumed license extension period that runs through 2050. Seabrooks existing license expires in 2026, but FPL Energy plans to file with the NRC an application to extend the license period to 2050. Comprehensive studies are filed with New Hampshires Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee every four years, with updates provided annually. The next comprehensive study will be filed in mid 2003. The September 1999 studies indicate that FPL Energys portion of the future cost of decommissioning Seabrook, including spent fuel storage, is $1.7 billion, or $516 million in 2002 dollars. The nuclear decommissioning obligation recorded in connection with the acquisition of Seabrook was determined in a manner similar to that prescribed by FAS 143. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for nu clear decommissioning totaled approximately $152 million. See Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant and Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves the use of estimates and judgments concerning the amount and timing of future expenditures. FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate, rate of return and inflation projections to determine funding requirements related to decommissioning. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update their estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Regulatory Accounting FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of FAS&nbsp ;71 is assessed each reporting period. See Note 1 Regulation. See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Results of Operations FPL Groups net income decreased by approximately $308 million in 2002 compared to 2001, while net income increased $77 million in 2001 compared to 2000. The decrease in 2002 net income is due to a number of charges aggregating $389 million after tax recorded at FPL Energy and at Corporate and Other. The charges consisted primarily of the cumulative effect of an accounting change ($222 million after tax), impairment and restructuring charges ($127 million after tax) and charges related to certain wind projects ($10 million after tax) and leveraged leases ($30 million after tax). These charges were partially offset by a gain from an income tax settlement ($30 million). Merger related charges reduced FPL Groups net income in 2001 by $19 million and in 2000 by $41 million. Unrealized gains from non managed hedge activities increased FPL Groups net income by $1 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Management assesses the economic performance of its business segments excluding these charges, gains and the effects of non managed hedges. Although such items are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, both the size and nature of such items make year to year comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Excluding these items, net income would have been $831 million, $792 million and $745 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The restructuring activities discussed above are not expected to have a significant effect on FPL Groups future results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. Beginning January 1, 2002, FPL Group segregated unrealized mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions into two categories. Prior year amounts have been reclassified into these categories. The first category, referred to as trading and managed hedge activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The unrealized gains from trading and managed hedge activities were $8 million and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are reported net in operating revenues. The second category, referred to as non managed hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges (but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133) and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. These transactions have been entered into to reduce our aggrega te risk, and any mark to market gains or losses during the period prior to realization will continue to be reported outside of operating income in other net in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. Any position that is moved between non managed hedge activity and trading and managed hedge activity is transferred at its fair value on the date of reclassification. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 5. FPL FPLs net income available to FPL Group for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $717 million, $679 million and $607 million, respectively, representing more than 85% of FPL Groups consolidated net income in each year. During 2002, FPLs net income benefited from higher revenues from retail base operations (net of the revenue refund provision), lower depreciation expense and lower interest charges. However, higher O&M expenses partially offset these positives. During 2001, higher revenues from retail base operations and lower depreciation were partially offset by higher O&M expenses and higher interest charges. Also in 2001 and 2000, FPL recorded merger related expenses totaling $26 million ($16 million after tax) and $62 million ($38 million after tax), respectively. For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. Excluding merger related expenses, net income would have been $717 million, $695 million and $645 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, r espectively. In March 2002, the FPSC approved a new rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The 2002 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective April 15, 1999 through April 14, 2002. Both agreements include a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The 1999 2002 rate agreement allowed FPL at its discretion to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was required to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets based on future depreciation studies. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates and Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. During the term of the agreement, FPLs ROE was from time to time outside the 10% 12% authorized range. However, the revenue sharing mechanism described above was specified as the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. The agreement included provisions which limited depreciation rates and accruals for nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs to the then approved levels and limited amounts recoverable under the environmental clause during the term of that agreement. The 2002 2005 rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the 2002 2005 rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002(a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund is limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL will not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL will continue to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The 2002 2005 rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. In addition, depreciation rates will not be changed during the term of the agreement; however, FPL will reduce its recorded depreciation expense by $125 million annually. As a result of that provision and other FPSC actions affecting accumulated nuclear amortization, FPL reclassified $170 million of special depreciation recorded in 1999 and 2000 and $99 million of nuclear amortization from accumulated depreciation to a regulatory lia bility, which is included in other liabilities on FPLs consolidated balance sheet. FPL also reduced depreciation expense in 2002 by $125 million. The nuclear amortization will be amortized ratably over the remaining life of the nuclear units based on the term of the existing operating licenses of the units at a rate of $7 million per year. In April 2002, the South Florida Hospital and Healthcare Association and certain hospitals filed a joint notice of administrative appeal with the FPSC and the Supreme Court of Florida appealing the FPSCs approval of the 2002 2005 rate agreement. The appellants contend that the FPSC rushed to judgment and approved the settlement without the benefit of any evidentiary record to support its actions, and requested that the Supreme Court remand the case to the FPSC for additional proceedings. Initial briefs, answer briefs and a reply brief were filed by the parties during 2002. Oral arguments are expected to take place in mid 2003. FPL intends to vigorously contest this appeal and believes that the FPSCs decision approving the 2002 2005 rate agreement will be upheld. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Retail base operations $ 3,603 $ 3,616 $ 3,507 Revenue refund provision (34 ) (110 ) (60 ) Cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs 3,793 3,955 2,902 Other 16 16 12 Total $ 7,378 $ 7,477 $ 6,361 For the year ended December 31, 2002, the increase in retail base revenues, due to an increase in the number of retail customer accounts and an increase in usage per retail customer, was more than offset by the 7% reduction in retail rates pursuant to the 2002 2005 rate agreement that was effective in mid April 2002. A 2.1% increase in the number of retail customer accounts increased revenues by $78 million, while the balance of the increase, or $112 million, was primarily due to a 3.5% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. About half of the growth in usage for the year was associated with weather, with both the late spring and early fall months being significantly warmer than usual. The remaining increase in usage was due to stronger economic conditions and price elasticity associated with lower rates. The 7% rate reduction equated to a $203 million reduction in retail base revenues. The increase in retail base revenues in 2001 was due to a 2.3% increase in retail customer accounts which contributed $66 million to revenues while the balance of the increase, or $43 million, was primarily due to a 0.4% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. These increases occurred despite a slowing economy and a decline in tourism following the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. Revenues from cost recovery clauses, franchise fees and revenue taxes represent a pass through of costs and do not significantly affect net income. However, differences between actual revenues and costs incurred can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in these revenues, as well as in fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. During 2002, clause revenues (primarily fuel related) declined due to lower fuel costs. Significant volatility in oil and gas prices during 2001 and 2000 resulted in a significant increase in clause revenues in 2001 and, to a lesser extent, in 2000. FPLs annual fuel filing for 2001, as approved by the FPSC, included approximately $518 million of under recovered fuel costs from 2000, of which one half ($259 million) was recovered in 2001 and the balance was recovered in 2002. FPL agreed to this two year recovery, rather than the typical one year time frame, to ease the impact on customers bills. FPL also agreed that, instead of receiving a return at the commercial paper rate on this unrecovered portion through the fuel clause, the under recovery would be included as a rate base regulatory asset over the two year recovery period. In March 2003, the FPSC approved a fuel adjustment increase totaling $347 million beginning in April 2003 due to higher than projected oil and natural gas prices. See Note 1 Regulation. FPLs O&M expenses increased $143 million in 2002. Approximately $42 million of the increase is attributable to higher nuclear costs associated with more comprehensive inspections of the reactor vessel heads at FPLs nuclear facilities as ordered by the NRC, as well as increased outage and plant maintenance costs. In February 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to an NRC bulletin issued in August 2002, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including FPL, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each units scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. During the scheduled refueling outages for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in October 2002 and Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in March 2003, FPL performed visual and volumetric inspections and found no degradation associated with the reactor vessel heads. Visual inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during 2001 and at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 during 2002 revealed no degrada tion associated with the reactor vessel heads and visual and volumetric inspections will be performed during their next scheduled refueling outages in 2003. The cost to perform inspections and any necessary repairs for all of the four nuclear units until the reactor vessel heads are replaced is estimated at $67 million. During 2002, the FPSC authorized recognition of this amount on a levelized basis over a five year period beginning in 2002. FPL anticipates that it will replace the reactor vessel heads at all of its nuclear units over a three year period beginning in 2004 and has placed orders for long lead time components. The estimated cost for the reactor vessel heads is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 17 Commitments. In addition to the increase in nuclear O&M expenses in 2002, employee benefit costs, primarily medical related, increased $15 million and property insurance costs increased $9 million due to lower refunds under nuclear insurance policies. These pressures are expected to carry over into 2003. In addition, in December 2002, the FPSC approved a one time $35 million addition to the storm fund reserve, which was accrued in 2002. The balance of the increase in O&M expenses primarily related to costs associated with work force reductions, overhaul of fossil plants and system reliability efforts. FPLs O&M expenses increased $20 million in 2001, of which $5 million related to higher transmission and distribution costs mainly due to system growth and reliability improvements, $9 million related to generation costs primarily those incurred at fossil production plants to comply with regulations and maintain operating service availability, and the balance of the increase primarily reflects additional res erves for uncollectible accounts due to weaker economic conditions. Depreciation and amortization expense declined during the year ended December 31, 2002 due to the $125 million credit to depreciation expense authorized under the 2002 2005 rate agreement. This credit was partially offset by higher depreciation expense associated with the amortization of a regulatory asset recorded as a result of a litigation settlement. The amortization approximates $44 million annually over a 5 year period beginning in January 2002 and is being recovered over the 5 year period through the fuel and capacity clauses. See Note 10. The remaining depreciation expense variance is primarily due to overall growth in the asset base reflecting the completion of the Fort Myers and Sanford repowering projects. The decrease in depreciation expense during 2001 reflects the absence of special depreciation under the previous rate agreement partially offset by higher depreciation expense associated with overall growth in the asset base. In 2000, FPL recorded approximately $101 million related to speci al depreciation. In June 2002, the NRC approved an extension of the operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which will allow operation of these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. FPL has not yet decided whether to exercise the option to operate past the original license expiration dates of 2012 and 2013. Nevertheless, FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. This decision will be made by 2007. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. In 2001, FPL filed applications with the NRC for 20 year license extensions for the St. Lucie units and expects a ruling from the NRC in the fall of 2003. Interest charges for 2002 decreased primarily due to lower interest rates, as well as lower average debt balances as a result of the recovery of previously under recovered fuel costs. In 2001, the increase in interest charges primarily reflects increased debt activity to fund FPLs capital expansion program. Also in 2001, taxes other than income taxes increased significantly primarily due to higher franchise and gross receipts taxes associated with higher retail customer fuel charges that do not have a material effect on net income. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2002, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Recently, these state restructuring efforts have diminished and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes that it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue a request for proposal. The request for proposal process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In 2002, FPL received approval to construct new generation at its Martin and Manatee sites. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. In December 2001, the FPSC determined that the RTO as proposed was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. In March 2002, FPL, Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure of GridFlorida from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own its transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In September 2002, the FPSC approved many of the aspects of the modified RTO p roposal, allowing recovery of GridFloridas incremental costs through the capacity clause and setting a hearing date of October 31, 2002 on market design and other outstanding issues. In October 2002, Public Counsel filed a notice of administrative appeal with the Supreme Court of Florida seeking an appeal of the FPSCs order, which caused an automatic stay of the proceedings. On October 28, 2002, the FPSC ordered that the GridFlorida proceedings be held in abeyance pending Public Counsels appeal. On December 12, 2002, Public Counsel filed their brief. Public Counsel contends that the FPSC should not approve the ISO proposal because the FPSC cannot voluntarily abdicate its jurisdiction over retail transmission rates and transmission planning and the ISO will not be subject to the FPSCs jurisdiction. Oral arguments are scheduled for May 6, 2003. A ruling from the Supreme Court of Florida is expected in late 2003. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require FERC regulated entities, including FPL, that own, control or operate transmission facilities to hire an independent transmission provider, which can be an RTO such as GridFlorida for the operation of those facilities. The proposed rule also will require the independent transmission provider to administer various spot markets for the sale of electricity and ancillary services and to manage congestion on the transmission system using financial congestion rights. State regulators from the southeast and western states have expressed strong reservations about FERCs proposal. FPL is evaluating the proposed rule and is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on FPLs operations. The FERC has announced it will be issuing a &quot ;white paper" in April 2003 incorporating comments received on its proposed rule. The "white paper" will re examine the schedule, which had originally proposed full implementation of the standard market design by September 2004. The FERC will allow parties to file comments on the "white paper" before issuing its final order this fall. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys net income (loss) for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $(169) million, $113 million and $82 million, respectively. FPL Energys net income has become a greater portion of FPL Groups consolidated net income increasing from 1% in 1997 to 14% in 2001. The net loss for 2002 was the result of FPL Energy recording impairment and other charges totaling $485 million ($295 million after tax). The impairment and other charges consisted of a goodwill impairment charge of $365 million ($222 million after tax) representing the cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and restructuring and other charges totaling $120 million ($73 million after tax) due to the unfavorable market conditions in the wholesale energy market. For further discussion of FAS 142, see Note 7, and for the restructuring and other charges, see below. In addition, during 2002, FPL Energy recorded less than $1 million of after tax net unrealize d mark to market gains from non managed hedges compared to gains of $8 million during 2001. For further discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 5. In 2000, FPL Energy recorded merger related expenses totaling $2 million ($1 million after tax). For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. Excluding these items, FPL Energys net income would have been $126 million, $105 million and $83 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. As a result of depressed economic conditions coupled with an oversupply of energy generating facilities in certain markets, projected profit margins for certain natural gas projects had declined and were not sufficient to cover the cost of capital. Therefore, FPL Energy made a strategic decision during 2002 to substantially exit the fossil fueled greenfield power plant development business for the foreseeable future and, as a result, recorded the following charges as restructuring and impairment charges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income: $67 million ($41 million after tax) to write off previously capitalized development costs, $16 million ($10 million after tax) related to the renegotiation of an agreement to significantly reduce the commitment to purchase gas turbines and other related equipment and $20 million ($12 million after tax) related to the realignment of the organization and the termination of an operating lease agreement with an SPE and related credit facility used to finance certain turbine purchases. For additional information concerning these charges, see Note 4 FPL Energy. Also in 2002, FPL Energy recorded a charge of approximately $17 million ($10 million after tax) against its investment in two wind projects due to regulatory issues associated with another investor in the projects. The resulting expense is included in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2002, FPL Energys net investment in the two wind projects totaled approximately $14 million. For additional information concerning these wind projects, see Note 17 Other Contingencies. Despite the downturn in the wholesale energy industry, FPL Energys 2002 net income benefitted from project additions, primarily wind assets in the central and western regions of the United States and the purchase of an 88.23% interest in Seabrook in November 2002, as well as a leased natural gas fired power plant that began operations during the fourth quarter of 2002. Project additions totaling more than 1,000 mw in 2001 and more than 2,200 mw in 2002 contributed $41 million to net income, $22 million coming from the full year effect of new wind projects that came on line in the second half of 2001 and the 324 mw added in 2002, and the balance from earnings from other project additions, including Seabrook. For additional information concerning the Seabrook acquisition, see Note 2. FPL Energys operating revenues and operating expenses for 2002 increased $109 million and $233 million, respectively, primarily driven by project additions coupled with the previously discussed restructuring charges that added $103 million to operating expenses. These project additions resulted in increases to operating revenues of $149 million and operating expenses of $128 million (including fuel related costs of $37 million, O&M expenses of $54 million and depreciation expense of $37 million) during 2002. Increased revenues from project additions were partially offset by lower revenues of $41 million from the balance of the consolidated portfolio primarily due to reduced energy prices driven by new entrants in the market, as well as mild weather in the Northeast including drought conditions, which had a negative impact on the performance of the hydro assets. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures, presented as equity in earnings of equity method investees, declined $5 million in 2002 reflecting the $17 million charge recorded against investments in two wind projects discussed above and a gain of $23 million on the restructuring of a gas supply contract that was renegotiated to yield lower fuel costs and is expected to improve future cash flows, as well as improve equity in earnings from the project. In addition, equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2001 included a gain of $34 million resulting from the sale of a partnership interest in a geothermal project. This gain was almost entirely offset by the write off of affiliate debt associated with the partnership interest, which was included in other net. Excluding these events, earnings in 2002 from FPL Energys investment in equity method investees increased approximately $20 million over 2001. This increase is primarily due to increased contract prices, as the majority of t he output of the projects is sold under long term contracts with counterparties, as well as reduced fuel prices in the northeast region. FPL Energy is currently constructing five gas fired power plants with a total capacity of approximately 3,700 mw, and expects to add 700 to 1,200 mw of new wind generation by the end of 2003. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio growth to come from a mix of asset acquisitions and wind development (assuming the extension of the production tax credits beyond 2003). Interest charges increased $12 million during 2002 associated with higher debt balances due to growth in the business, partly offset by lower average interest rates. Interest income in 2002 declined approximately $14 million and includes, in 2001, interest from a favorable settlement with the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, the decline in interest income reflects lower interest rates. FPL Energys 2001 net income growth of $31 million was driven mainly by the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio. Portfolio additions contributed $22 million to the earnings growth including $11 million from a 495 mw natural gas fired unit in Texas, which became operational in late 2000, $2 million from a 171 mw natural gas fired peaking unit in the Mid Atlantic region and $9 million from five new wind projects totaling 843 mw in the Central and West regions. FPL Energys 2001 operating revenues and operating expenses increased by $108 million and $95 million, respectively, primarily due to project additions. These project additions resulted in increases to operating revenues of $124 million and operating expenses of $102 million (including fuel related costs of $61 million, O&M expenses of $17 million and depreciation expense of $24 million) during 2001. Increased revenues from project additions were partially offset by lower revenues of $11 million from the remaining consolidated portfolio mainly because sales of excess fuel at a natural gas fired generating facility in the Mid Atlantic region that occurred in 2001 did not recur in 2002. Operating expenses related to the remaining consolidated projects declined as a result of lower fuel costs of $13 million due to reduced fuel sales. Equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2001 increased $36 million due to a gain resulting from the sale of a partnership interest in a geothermal project which totaled $34 million. Earnings in 2001 also included a loss recognized in connection with the write off of affiliate debt associated with the sale, which was included in other net. The remaining increase in equity in earnings during 2001 was mainly due to higher energy prices. Interest charges increased $7 million during 2001 associated with higher debt balances due to growth in the business, partially offset by the effect of lower average interest rates. Since early June 2002, there has been a decline in the wholesale energy market, including deterioration in forward prices and reduced liquidity, as well as increasing credit concerns that have limited the number of counterparties with which FPL Energy does business. These market conditions have made it more difficult for FPL Energy to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices, to optimize the value of its assets and to contract the output of its plants. Any uncontracted output from the plants has been and will be sold into the market place at prevailing prices. FPL Energy expects, as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Expanded competition in a relaxed regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Wholesale energy markets have experienced lower demand and lower wholesale electricity prices as a result of weather and economic conditions and the oversupply of generation in certain regions. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. FPL Energys 2003 earnings are subject to variability due to commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. FPL Energys exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the high degree of contract coverage or hedging obtained for 2003. FPL Energys target is to have approximately 75% of its capacity under contract or hedged over the following twelve month period. As of December 31, 2002, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2003 is as follows: Asset Class Available MW(a) % MW Hedged Wind (b) 1,924 100 % Non wind assets under long term contract 1,255 98 % Merchants: Seabrook 955 96 % NEPOOL/PJM/NYPP 1,558 44 % (c) ERCOT 2,301 75 % (c) Other (WECC/SERC) 862 42 % (c) Total portfolio 8,855 77 % (a) Weighted to reflect in service dates; all assets adjusted for planned 2003 outages, including a refueling outage for Seabrook. (b) For further discussion regarding two wind projects involved in litigation that could potentially terminate long term power sales agreements, see Note 17 Other Contingencies. (c) Represents on peak mw hedged. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, FPL Energy is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. FPL Energy actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. The majority of FPL Energys 2003 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. FPL Energys results are affected by natural fluctuations in weather. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine. FPL Energy expects project restructuring activities to contribute 10 15% to its net income in 2003. FPL Energys wind development activities are expected to add between 700 and 1,200 mw during 2003, of which 434 mw have been announced. The majority of the new wind assets are expected to go into service during the second half of 2003, and consequently will have a greater impact on 2004 results of operations. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of FPL FiberNet and other corporate income and expenses such as interest income and interest expense. FPL FiberNets net income (loss) was $(55) million, $15 million and $8 million, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The net loss for 2002 includes impairment charges as a result of declines in the telecommunications market. FPL FiberNet completed valuation studies to assess the recoverability of its assets and as a result, in 2002, recorded charges of approximately $104 million ($64 million after tax). Of this amount, $85 million ($52 million after tax) represents an impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment, the fair value of which was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, FPL FiberNet decided not to pursue the planned build out of metro fiber rings in certain cities, and restructuring charges of $19 million ($12 million after tax) were recognized related to the write off of developme nt costs and inventory. These charges are included in restructuring and impairment charges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. Although the demand for telecommunication capacity continues to grow, many telecommunication companies have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 as market conditions deteriorated. This has caused customer credit to become a primary focus for the industry as credit downgrades have increased. Most of FPL FiberNets customers are required to pay in advance and past due amounts are closely monitored and actively pursued. Several of FPL FiberNets customers have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 and reserves for any pre petition receivables due to FPL FiberNet have been established. As a result of this deterioration and general economic conditions, FPL FiberNet has experienced a slowdown in its longhaul (intercity transport) business. FPL FiberNets metropolitan network continues to benefit from an expanding customer base and increasing use of FPL FiberNets network by its existing customers. FPL FiberNets capital expenditure forecast for 2003 07 is approximately $50 million. An indirect subsidiary of FPL Group has investments in several leveraged leases, two of which are with MCI Telecommunications Corporation (MCI). In July 2002, MCI filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. Due to the uncertainty of collectibility associated with these leveraged leases, FPL Group recorded a reserve during 2002 totaling $48 million ($30 million after tax), which is included in reserve for leveraged leases in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. This reserve amount was offset by the favorable settlement of a prior year income tax matter. See Note 6. Also in 2001 and 2000, Corporate and Other recorded merger related expenses totaling $4 million ($3 million after tax) and $3 million ($2 million after tax), respectively. For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. In connection with the redemption in 1999 of its one third ownership interest in Olympus Communications, L.P. (Olympus), an indirect subsidiary of FPL Group holds a note receivable from a limited partnership, of which Olympus is a general partner. The note receivable is secured by a pledge of the redeemed ownership interest. Olympus is an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia Communications Corp. (Adelphia). In June 2002, Adelphia and a number of its subsidiaries, including Olympus, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. The note receivable plus accrued interest totaled approximately $127 million at December 31, 2002 and are included in other investments on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets. The note was due on July 1, 2002 and is currently in default. Based on the most recent publicly available financial information set forth in Olympus Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2001, total assets of Olympus exceeded liabilities by approximately $3.6 billion and Olympus served 1,787,000 basic subscribers. Olympus has not filed its Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 or its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q with the SEC, and consequently the September 30, 2001 financial information may not be indicative of Olympus current financial position. In July 2002, the SEC filed suit against Adelphia and certain of its officers alleging that Adelphia fraudulently excluded billions of dollars of debt from its financial statements, misstated its financial and operating results and concealed rampant self dealing by the Rigas family, which controlled Adelphia. Pursuant to a bankruptcy court order, Olympus is required to file with the court updated financial information. After a number of moti ons to extend being granted by the court, updated financial information is now required to be filed by June 23, 2003. In August 2002, an affidavit was filed in the bankruptcy court proceedings by a director of Lazard Freres & Co. LLC stating that, based on his analysis, the market value of FPL Groups secured interest in Olympus exceeded the carrying value of the note receivable plus accrued interest. In February 2003, FPL Group obtained an evaluation of the Olympus assets from an independent third party. The results of the evaluation, which was based on the limited information available, indicated that there is no impairment. However, the ultimate collectibility of the note receivable cannot be assured. FPL Group will continue to monitor these developments. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and to grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses and, among other things, to redeem debt or pay maturing debt obligations. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. Credit ratings can affect FPL Groups and FPLs ability to obtain short and long term financing, the cost of such financing and the execution of their financing strategies. In 2002, FPL Group raised approximately $1.4 billion through the issuance of 5.75 million shares of common stock and 21.62 million Corporate Units. Also during 2002, FPL redeemed $750 million and issued $600 million of first mortgage bonds and FPL Group Capital entered into two variable rate term loans totaling $175 million. See Note 16. In October 2002, FPL and FPL Group Capital renewed their bank lines of credit that were scheduled to expire. Bank lines of credit available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 aggregated approximately $3.1 billion ($2.1 billion for FPL Group Capital and $1 billion for FPL). Approximately one half of these facilities expire in the second half of 2003, with the remainder expiring in 2004. These facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs as well as for general corporate purposes. In 2002, FPL received a $230 million tax refund out of an estimated $300 million it expects to receive as a result of an IRS ruling, and paid special dividends totaling $375 million to FPL Group. Also, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, FPL paid, as dividends to FPL Group, its net income available to FPL Group on a one month lag basis. FPLs charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of debt outstanding. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL Group Capital and FPL, the maintenance of a specific minimum level of credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit facilities. However, interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements and commitment fees are tied to credit ratings and would increase or decrease when ratings are changed. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain power purchase and other agreements. Securities of FPL Group and its subsidiaries are currently rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) and Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P). At February 28, 2003, Moodys and S&P had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys(a) S&P(a) FPL Group: Corporate credit rating N/A A FPL: Corporate credit rating A1 A/A 1 First mortgage bonds Aa3 A Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds Aa3/VMIG 1 A/A 1 Preferred stock A3 BBB+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 FPL Group Capital: Corporate credit rating N/A A/A 1 Debentures A2 A Commercial paper P 1 A 1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. In June 2002, Moodys confirmed its credit ratings for FPL and FPL Group Capital. The outlook indicated by Moodys for the ratings of FPL is stable, while the outlook for the ratings of FPL Group Capital is negative reflecting uncertainty in the wholesale generation market. In April 2002, following the announcement of the Seabrook acquisition, S&P placed FPL Groups credit rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. In November 2002, S&P removed the CreditWatch with negative implications for FPL Group. The outlook was revised to negative, and the "A" corporate credit rating was affirmed for FPL Group and subsidiaries. FPL Groups and FPLs commitments at December 31, 2002 were as follows: 2003 2004 05 2006 07 Thereafter Total (millions) Long Term Debt: FPL $ 70 $ 500 $ $ 1,875 $ 2,445 FPL Energy 35 78 57 212 382 Corporate and Other 275 1,675 1,136 3,086 Standby letters of credit: FPL 9 9 FPL Energy 320 320 Corporate and Other 4 4 Guarantees: FPL Energy 105 6 214 332 657 Corporate and Other 2 1 3 Other commitments: FPL(a) 1,365 2,635 1,925 5,925 FPL Energy(b) 224 325 262 188 999 Corporate and Other 10 10 Total $ 2,142 $ 3,821 $ 4,133 $ 3,744 $ 13,840 (a) Represents projected capital expenditures through 2007 to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth. Excludes minimum payments under purchased power and fuel contracts which are recoverable through various cost recovery clauses. See Note 17 Contracts. (b) Represents firm commitments in connection with the acquisition, development and expansion of independent power projects. In 2000, subsidiaries of FPL Energy entered into two off balance sheet financing arrangements with SPEs. In the first transaction, FPL Energys subsidiary entered into an operating lease agreement to lease a 550 mw combined cycle power generation plant. In the second transaction, the SPE was established to fund the construction of certain turbines and related equipment. This SPE arrangement was terminated in 2002. The SPE that remains had arranged funding commitments through debt and equity contributions from investors who are not affiliated with FPL Group. At December 31, 2002, $380 million had been drawn on these commitments. FPL Group Capital has guaranteed the obligations of the FPL Energy subsidiaries under these agreements, which are included in the table above. In addition, in 2002, FPL Energy received approximately $282 million which had previously been posted as collateral in connection with this off balance sheet financing arrangement. See Note 17 Off Balance Sheet Financing Arrangem ent. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which will replace the current accounting guidance for SPEs. As a result, entities that are deemed to be VIEs in which FPL Group or one of its subsidiaries is considered to be the "primary beneficiary" will be consolidated. Variable interests are considered to be contractual, ownership, or other monetary interests in an entity that fluctuate with changes in the entitys net asset value. Under its current structure, FPL Group believes that the SPE discussed above will be required to be consolidated beginning in July 2003. At December 31, 2002, FPL Groups maximum exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with this SPE was $215 million. FPL Energy has guaranteed certain performance obligations of a power plant owned by a wholly owned subsidiary as part of a power purchase agreement (PPA) that expires in 2027. Under the PPA, the subsidiary could incur market based liquidated damages for failure to meet a stated mechanical availability and guaranteed average output. Based on past performance of similar projects, management believes that the exposure associated with this guarantee is not material. FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including those under the FPL Group Capital debt, commercial paper and guarantees discussed above. FPL has no outstanding guarantees. FPL self insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution properties and maintains a funded storm and property insurance reserve to reduce the financial impact of storm losses. The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was approximately $298 million and $235 million, respectively, representing the amount in the storm fund plus related deferred income taxes. The December 31, 2002 balance includes a one time accrual of $35 million as approved by the FPSC. The FPSC has indicated that it would consider future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery from customers. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide cash for storm restoration costs. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair value are recognized net in operating revenues for trading and managed hedge activities and in other net for non managed hedges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. Settlement gains and losses are included within the line items in the statements of income to which they relate. See Note 5. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups derivative instruments for the year ended December 31, 2002, were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2002 Trading & Managed Hedges Non Managed Hedges & Hedges in OCI FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at beginning of period $ 1 $ (7 ) $ (6 ) Contracts realized or settled (8 ) (14 ) (22 ) Fair value of new contracts when entered into 9 9 Changes in valuation assumptions 2 2 (a) Other changes in fair values 2 67 69 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 $ 4 $ 48 $ 52 (b) (a) Change in valuation assumption of correlation between power and fuel prices. (b) Includes the fair value of FPLs derivative instruments of approximately $12 million at December 31, 2002. The sources of fair value and maturity of derivative instruments at December 31, 2002 were as follows: Maturity 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total (millions) Sources of Fair Value: Prices actively quoted $ 50 $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ 46 Prices provided by other external sources, primarily broker quotes 1 1 Prices based on models and other valuation methods 1 (1 ) 1 1 1 2 5 $ 51 $ (2 ) $ (1 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 52 Market Risk Sensitivity Substantially all financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group manages its interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates in relation to total capitalization. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated loss based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading and Managed Hedges Non Managed Hedges and Hedges in OCI Total FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2001 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 December 31, 2002 $ $ $ $ 1 $ 3 $ 4 $ 1 $ 3 $ 4 Average for the period ended December 31, 2002 $ 1 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 8 $ 9 $ 2 $ 8 $ 10 Interest rate risk The special use funds of FPL Group include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value of approximately $1.184 billion and $1.020 billion ($1.066 billion and $1.020 billion for FPL) at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer term se curities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. See Note 12. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPLs and FPL Groups long term debt: December 31, 2002 2001 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value (millions) Long term debt of FPL, including current maturities $ 2,434 $ 2,578 (a) $ 2,579 $ 2,653 (a) Long term debt of FPL Group, including current maturities $ 5,895 $ 6,222 (a) $ 4,890 $ 5,080 (a) (a) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of the net liabilities would increase by approximately $134 million ($47 million for FPL) at December 31, 2002. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $689 million and $576 million ($578 million and $576 million for FPL) at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $69 million ($58 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment at December 31, 2002. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Effective January 1, 2002, FPL Group adopted FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." For information concerning the adoption of FAS 142, see Note 1 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations Beginning in 2003, FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note 1 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Guarantees In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." See Note 1 Guarantees. Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." See Note 1 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). Derivative Instruments FPL Group is currently analyzing the effect on its financial statements of a change in interpretation of Derivative Implementation Group Issue C11. For further discussion, see Note 5. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to exercise judgment and make estimates and assumptions where amounts are not subject to precise measurement or are dependent on future events. Critical accounting policies and estimates, which are important to the portrayal of both FPL Groups and FPLs financial condition and results of operations and which require complex, subjective judgments are as follows: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities On January 1, 2001, FPL Group and FPL adopted FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities," as amended by FAS 137 and FAS 138 (collectively, FAS 133). FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets and related contracts. To a lesser extent, FPL Group also engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected favorable price movements. These accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. FAS 133 requires that derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models. The estimation of fair value for long term contracts requires the use of internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the prices in the contract and the forward prices. The market for electricity in the first one to two years of a contract is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed. Factors used in developing forward curves for el ectricity include the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel and capacity clauses. In the non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless certain hedge accounting criteria are met. For those transactions for which hedge accounting can be applied, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (a component of shareholders equity) rather than being recognized in current earnings. Since FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and, from time to time, issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133. In particular, much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from the provisions of FAS 133. Despite the large volume of implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance does not provide specific guidance on all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations. The interpretation of FAS 133 continues to evolve. One possible result of changes in interpretation could be that certain contracts would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. See Note 5. Accounting for Pensions and Other Post Employment Benefits FPL Group and its subsidiaries sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits) for substantially all employees. Both the pension and life insurance plans have funded trusts dedicated to providing the benefits. FPL Groups pension income net of the cost of other benefits was approximately $82 million, $84 million and $89 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $73 million, $77 million and $85 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of other benefits are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years, assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4.5% for 2002 and 5.5% for 2001 and 2000, and a weighted average discount rate used in determining the benefit obligations of 6.00% and 6.25% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based on current health care costs (as related to other benefits), the projected 2003 trend assumptions used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the plans are 10% for all age groups. The rate is assumed to decrease over the next ten years to the ultimate trend rate of 5% for all age groups and remain at that level thereafter. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the market place. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year long term median returns for a portfolio with a 50/50 equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds. FPL Group also considered its historical 10 year and 20 year compounded returns which have been in excess of these broad equity and bond benchmark indices. FPL Group believes that 7.75% is a reasonable long term rate of return on its plan assets, despite the recent market downturn. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market related value of assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% (from 7.75% to 7.25%) would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $13 million ($11 million for FPL). Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $5 million ($4 million for FPL). Lowering the salary increase assumption by 0.5% would have increased FPL Groups net income for 2002 by approximately $2 million ($2 million for FPL). Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. An increase or decrease of 1% in assumed health care cost trend rates would have a corresponding effect on the service and interest cost components and the accumulated obligation of other benefits of approximately $1 million and $8 million, respectively. The fair value of plan assets has decreased from $2.5 billion at September 30, 2001 to $2.4 billion at September 30, 2002 for the pension plan and from $74 million at September 30, 2001 to $45 million at September 30, 2002 for other benefits. Despite the recent reductions in the funded status of FPL Groups pension plan, management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the pension plan in the near future. FPL Group does not anticipate making cash contributions to the postretirement plans during 2003 but is studying the feasibility of transferring pension plan assets to fund claims associated with retiree medical benefits, as allowed by current tax law. See Note 3. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Under that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement FPLs current plans provide for prompt dismantlement of the Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing upon license expiration in 2012 and 2013. In June 2002, the NRC approved extension of the operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which will allow operation of these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. FPL has not yet decided whether to exercise the option to operate past the original license expiration dates. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed upon license expiration in 2016 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 when its license expires in 2023. In 2001, FPL filed with the NRC applications for 20 year license extensions for the St. Lucie units and expects a ruling from the NRC in the fall of 2003. FPL accrues and funds a reserve for nuclear decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. The FPSC approved new decommissioning studies in 2001 and, effective in May 2002, reduced the annual decommissioning accrual from $85 million to approximately $79 million. The studies assume that FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending removal to a U.S. government facility. The studies indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is $6.4 billion, or $2.0 billion in 2002 dollars. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $1.7 billion. Upon the adoption of FAS 143 on January 1, 2003, the accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning was moved from the accumulated depreciation caption on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets to a noncurrent liability, the amount of the obligation was adjusted to reflect the then current fair value of the obligation, an asset was recognized for the undepreciated present value of the initial obligation and any difference was recognized as a regulatory liability. FPL also accrues the estimated cost of dismantling its fossil fuel plants over the expected service life of each unit. However, unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. Dismantlement studies are filed with the FPSC at least every four years. The most recent studies became effective January 1, 1999 and indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $482 million. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for fossil dismantlement was $260 million. The liability that was recognized for obligations associated with the retirement of FPLs fossil fuel plants under FAS 143 was not significant. Upon acquisition of its interest in Seabrook, FPL Energy recorded a liability for the present value of Seabrooks expected decommissioning costs. The liability will be accreted using the interest method over an assumed license extension period that runs through 2050. Seabrooks existing license expires in 2026, but FPL Energy plans to file with the NRC an application to extend the license period to 2050. Comprehensive studies are filed with New Hampshires Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee every four years, with updates provided annually. The next comprehensive study will be filed in mid 2003. The September 1999 studies indicate that FPL Energys portion of the future cost of decommissioning Seabrook, including spent fuel storage, is $1.7 billion, or $516 million in 2002 dollars. The nuclear decommissioning obligation recorded in connection with the acquisition of Seabrook was determined in a manner similar to that prescribed by FAS 143. At December 31, 2002, the accumulated provision for nu clear decommissioning totaled approximately $152 million. See Note 1 Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant and Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves the use of estimates and judgments concerning the amount and timing of future expenditures. FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate, rate of return and inflation projections to determine funding requirements related to decommissioning. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update their estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Regulatory Accounting FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of FAS&nbsp ;71 is assessed each reporting period. See Note 1 Regulation. See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Results of Operations FPL Groups net income decreased by approximately $308 million in 2002 compared to 2001, while net income increased $77 million in 2001 compared to 2000. The decrease in 2002 net income is due to a number of charges aggregating $389 million after tax recorded at FPL Energy and at Corporate and Other. The charges consisted primarily of the cumulative effect of an accounting change ($222 million after tax), impairment and restructuring charges ($127 million after tax) and charges related to certain wind projects ($10 million after tax) and leveraged leases ($30 million after tax). These charges were partially offset by a gain from an income tax settlement ($30 million). Merger related charges reduced FPL Groups net income in 2001 by $19 million and in 2000 by $41 million. Unrealized gains from non managed hedge activities increased FPL Groups net income by $1 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Management assesses the economic performance of its business segments excluding these charges, gains and the effects of non managed hedges. Although such items are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, both the size and nature of such items make year to year comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Excluding these items, net income would have been $831 million, $792 million and $745 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The restructuring activities discussed above are not expected to have a significant effect on FPL Groups future results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. Beginning January 1, 2002, FPL Group segregated unrealized mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions into two categories. Prior year amounts have been reclassified into these categories. The first category, referred to as trading and managed hedge activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The unrealized gains from trading and managed hedge activities were $8 million and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are reported net in operating revenues. The second category, referred to as non managed hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges (but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133) and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. These transactions have been entered into to reduce our aggrega te risk, and any mark to market gains or losses during the period prior to realization will continue to be reported outside of operating income in other net in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. Any position that is moved between non managed hedge activity and trading and managed hedge activity is transferred at its fair value on the date of reclassification. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 5. FPL FPLs net income available to FPL Group for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $717 million, $679 million and $607 million, respectively, representing more than 85% of FPL Groups consolidated net income in each year. During 2002, FPLs net income benefited from higher revenues from retail base operations (net of the revenue refund provision), lower depreciation expense and lower interest charges. However, higher O&M expenses partially offset these positives. During 2001, higher revenues from retail base operations and lower depreciation were partially offset by higher O&M expenses and higher interest charges. Also in 2001 and 2000, FPL recorded merger related expenses totaling $26 million ($16 million after tax) and $62 million ($38 million after tax), respectively. For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. Excluding merger related expenses, net income would have been $717 million, $695 million and $645 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, r espectively. In March 2002, the FPSC approved a new rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The 2002 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective April 15, 1999 through April 14, 2002. Both agreements include a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The 1999 2002 rate agreement allowed FPL at its discretion to recover, as special depreciation, up to $100 million in each year of the three year agreement period. The additional depreciation recovery was required to be applied to nuclear and or fossil generating assets based on future depreciation studies. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates and Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. During the term of the agreement, FPLs ROE was from time to time outside the 10% 12% authorized range. However, the revenue sharing mechanism described above was specified as the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address that circumstance. The agreement included provisions which limited depreciation rates and accruals for nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs to the then approved levels and limited amounts recoverable under the environmental clause during the term of that agreement. The 2002 2005 rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the 2002 2005 rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002(a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund is limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL will not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL will continue to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the 2002 2005 rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The 2002 2005 rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. In addition, depreciation rates will not be changed during the term of the agreement; however, FPL will reduce its recorded depreciation expense by $125 million annually. As a result of that provision and other FPSC actions affecting accumulated nuclear amortization, FPL reclassified $170 million of special depreciation recorded in 1999 and 2000 and $99 million of nuclear amortization from accumulated depreciation to a regulatory lia bility, which is included in other liabilities on FPLs consolidated balance sheet. FPL also reduced depreciation expense in 2002 by $125 million. The nuclear amortization will be amortized ratably over the remaining life of the nuclear units based on the term of the existing operating licenses of the units at a rate of $7 million per year. In April 2002, the South Florida Hospital and Healthcare Association and certain hospitals filed a joint notice of administrative appeal with the FPSC and the Supreme Court of Florida appealing the FPSCs approval of the 2002 2005 rate agreement. The appellants contend that the FPSC rushed to judgment and approved the settlement without the benefit of any evidentiary record to support its actions, and requested that the Supreme Court remand the case to the FPSC for additional proceedings. Initial briefs, answer briefs and a reply brief were filed by the parties during 2002. Oral arguments are expected to take place in mid 2003. FPL intends to vigorously contest this appeal and believes that the FPSCs decision approving the 2002 2005 rate agreement will be upheld. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Retail base operations $ 3,603 $ 3,616 $ 3,507 Revenue refund provision (34 ) (110 ) (60 ) Cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs 3,793 3,955 2,902 Other 16 16 12 Total $ 7,378 $ 7,477 $ 6,361 For the year ended December 31, 2002, the increase in retail base revenues, due to an increase in the number of retail customer accounts and an increase in usage per retail customer, was more than offset by the 7% reduction in retail rates pursuant to the 2002 2005 rate agreement that was effective in mid April 2002. A 2.1% increase in the number of retail customer accounts increased revenues by $78 million, while the balance of the increase, or $112 million, was primarily due to a 3.5% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. About half of the growth in usage for the year was associated with weather, with both the late spring and early fall months being significantly warmer than usual. The remaining increase in usage was due to stronger economic conditions and price elasticity associated with lower rates. The 7% rate reduction equated to a $203 million reduction in retail base revenues. The increase in retail base revenues in 2001 was due to a 2.3% increase in retail customer accounts which contributed $66 million to revenues while the balance of the increase, or $43 million, was primarily due to a 0.4% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. These increases occurred despite a slowing economy and a decline in tourism following the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. Revenues from cost recovery clauses, franchise fees and revenue taxes represent a pass through of costs and do not significantly affect net income. However, differences between actual revenues and costs incurred can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in these revenues, as well as in fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. During 2002, clause revenues (primarily fuel related) declined due to lower fuel costs. Significant volatility in oil and gas prices during 2001 and 2000 resulted in a significant increase in clause revenues in 2001 and, to a lesser extent, in 2000. FPLs annual fuel filing for 2001, as approved by the FPSC, included approximately $518 million of under recovered fuel costs from 2000, of which one half ($259 million) was recovered in 2001 and the balance was recovered in 2002. FPL agreed to this two year recovery, rather than the typical one year time frame, to ease the impact on customers bills. FPL also agreed that, instead of receiving a return at the commercial paper rate on this unrecovered portion through the fuel clause, the under recovery would be included as a rate base regulatory asset over the two year recovery period. In March 2003, the FPSC approved a fuel adjustment increase totaling $347 million beginning in April 2003 due to higher than projected oil and natural gas prices. See Note 1 Regulation. FPLs O&M expenses increased $143 million in 2002. Approximately $42 million of the increase is attributable to higher nuclear costs associated with more comprehensive inspections of the reactor vessel heads at FPLs nuclear facilities as ordered by the NRC, as well as increased outage and plant maintenance costs. In February 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to an NRC bulletin issued in August 2002, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including FPL, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each units scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. During the scheduled refueling outages for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in October 2002 and Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in March 2003, FPL performed visual and volumetric inspections and found no degradation associated with the reactor vessel heads. Visual inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during 2001 and at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 during 2002 revealed no degrada tion associated with the reactor vessel heads and visual and volumetric inspections will be performed during their next scheduled refueling outages in 2003. The cost to perform inspections and any necessary repairs for all of the four nuclear units until the reactor vessel heads are replaced is estimated at $67 million. During 2002, the FPSC authorized recognition of this amount on a levelized basis over a five year period beginning in 2002. FPL anticipates that it will replace the reactor vessel heads at all of its nuclear units over a three year period beginning in 2004 and has placed orders for long lead time components. The estimated cost for the reactor vessel heads is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 17 Commitments. In addition to the increase in nuclear O&M expenses in 2002, employee benefit costs, primarily medical related, increased $15 million and property insurance costs increased $9 million due to lower refunds under nuclear insurance policies. These pressures are expected to carry over into 2003. In addition, in December 2002, the FPSC approved a one time $35 million addition to the storm fund reserve, which was accrued in 2002. The balance of the increase in O&M expenses primarily related to costs associated with work force reductions, overhaul of fossil plants and system reliability efforts. FPLs O&M expenses increased $20 million in 2001, of which $5 million related to higher transmission and distribution costs mainly due to system growth and reliability improvements, $9 million related to generation costs primarily those incurred at fossil production plants to comply with regulations and maintain operating service availability, and the balance of the increase primarily reflects additional res erves for uncollectible accounts due to weaker economic conditions. Depreciation and amortization expense declined during the year ended December 31, 2002 due to the $125 million credit to depreciation expense authorized under the 2002 2005 rate agreement. This credit was partially offset by higher depreciation expense associated with the amortization of a regulatory asset recorded as a result of a litigation settlement. The amortization approximates $44 million annually over a 5 year period beginning in January 2002 and is being recovered over the 5 year period through the fuel and capacity clauses. See Note 10. The remaining depreciation expense variance is primarily due to overall growth in the asset base reflecting the completion of the Fort Myers and Sanford repowering projects. The decrease in depreciation expense during 2001 reflects the absence of special depreciation under the previous rate agreement partially offset by higher depreciation expense associated with overall growth in the asset base. In 2000, FPL recorded approximately $101 million related to speci al depreciation. In June 2002, the NRC approved an extension of the operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which will allow operation of these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. FPL has not yet decided whether to exercise the option to operate past the original license expiration dates of 2012 and 2013. Nevertheless, FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. This decision will be made by 2007. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. In 2001, FPL filed applications with the NRC for 20 year license extensions for the St. Lucie units and expects a ruling from the NRC in the fall of 2003. Interest charges for 2002 decreased primarily due to lower interest rates, as well as lower average debt balances as a result of the recovery of previously under recovered fuel costs. In 2001, the increase in interest charges primarily reflects increased debt activity to fund FPLs capital expansion program. Also in 2001, taxes other than income taxes increased significantly primarily due to higher franchise and gross receipts taxes associated with higher retail customer fuel charges that do not have a material effect on net income. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2002, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Recently, these state restructuring efforts have diminished and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes that it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue a request for proposal. The request for proposal process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In 2002, FPL received approval to construct new generation at its Martin and Manatee sites. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. In December 2001, the FPSC determined that the RTO as proposed was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. In March 2002, FPL, Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure of GridFlorida from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own its transmission lines and the ISO would manage them. In September 2002, the FPSC approved many of the aspects of the modified RTO p roposal, allowing recovery of GridFloridas incremental costs through the capacity clause and setting a hearing date of October 31, 2002 on market design and other outstanding issues. In October 2002, Public Counsel filed a notice of administrative appeal with the Supreme Court of Florida seeking an appeal of the FPSCs order, which caused an automatic stay of the proceedings. On October 28, 2002, the FPSC ordered that the GridFlorida proceedings be held in abeyance pending Public Counsels appeal. On December 12, 2002, Public Counsel filed their brief. Public Counsel contends that the FPSC should not approve the ISO proposal because the FPSC cannot voluntarily abdicate its jurisdiction over retail transmission rates and transmission planning and the ISO will not be subject to the FPSCs jurisdiction. Oral arguments are scheduled for May 6, 2003. A ruling from the Supreme Court of Florida is expected in late 2003. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require FERC regulated entities, including FPL, that own, control or operate transmission facilities to hire an independent transmission provider, which can be an RTO such as GridFlorida for the operation of those facilities. The proposed rule also will require the independent transmission provider to administer various spot markets for the sale of electricity and ancillary services and to manage congestion on the transmission system using financial congestion rights. State regulators from the southeast and western states have expressed strong reservations about FERCs proposal. FPL is evaluating the proposed rule and is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on FPLs operations. The FERC has announced it will be issuing a &quot ;white paper" in April 2003 incorporating comments received on its proposed rule. The "white paper" will re examine the schedule, which had originally proposed full implementation of the standard market design by September 2004. The FERC will allow parties to file comments on the "white paper" before issuing its final order this fall. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys net income (loss) for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $(169) million, $113 million and $82 million, respectively. FPL Energys net income has become a greater portion of FPL Groups consolidated net income increasing from 1% in 1997 to 14% in 2001. The net loss for 2002 was the result of FPL Energy recording impairment and other charges totaling $485 million ($295 million after tax). The impairment and other charges consisted of a goodwill impairment charge of $365 million ($222 million after tax) representing the cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and restructuring and other charges totaling $120 million ($73 million after tax) due to the unfavorable market conditions in the wholesale energy market. For further discussion of FAS 142, see Note 7, and for the restructuring and other charges, see below. In addition, during 2002, FPL Energy recorded less than $1 million of after tax net unrealize d mark to market gains from non managed hedges compared to gains of $8 million during 2001. For further discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 5. In 2000, FPL Energy recorded merger related expenses totaling $2 million ($1 million after tax). For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. Excluding these items, FPL Energys net income would have been $126 million, $105 million and $83 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. As a result of depressed economic conditions coupled with an oversupply of energy generating facilities in certain markets, projected profit margins for certain natural gas projects had declined and were not sufficient to cover the cost of capital. Therefore, FPL Energy made a strategic decision during 2002 to substantially exit the fossil fueled greenfield power plant development business for the foreseeable future and, as a result, recorded the following charges as restructuring and impairment charges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income: $67 million ($41 million after tax) to write off previously capitalized development costs, $16 million ($10 million after tax) related to the renegotiation of an agreement to significantly reduce the commitment to purchase gas turbines and other related equipment and $20 million ($12 million after tax) related to the realignment of the organization and the termination of an operating lease agreement with an SPE and related credit facility used to finance certain turbine purchases. For additional information concerning these charges, see Note 4 FPL Energy. Also in 2002, FPL Energy recorded a charge of approximately $17 million ($10 million after tax) against its investment in two wind projects due to regulatory issues associated with another investor in the projects. The resulting expense is included in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2002, FPL Energys net investment in the two wind projects totaled approximately $14 million. For additional information concerning these wind projects, see Note 17 Other Contingencies. Despite the downturn in the wholesale energy industry, FPL Energys 2002 net income benefitted from project additions, primarily wind assets in the central and western regions of the United States and the purchase of an 88.23% interest in Seabrook in November 2002, as well as a leased natural gas fired power plant that began operations during the fourth quarter of 2002. Project additions totaling more than 1,000 mw in 2001 and more than 2,200 mw in 2002 contributed $41 million to net income, $22 million coming from the full year effect of new wind projects that came on line in the second half of 2001 and the 324 mw added in 2002, and the balance from earnings from other project additions, including Seabrook. For additional information concerning the Seabrook acquisition, see Note 2. FPL Energys operating revenues and operating expenses for 2002 increased $109 million and $233 million, respectively, primarily driven by project additions coupled with the previously discussed restructuring charges that added $103 million to operating expenses. These project additions resulted in increases to operating revenues of $149 million and operating expenses of $128 million (including fuel related costs of $37 million, O&M expenses of $54 million and depreciation expense of $37 million) during 2002. Increased revenues from project additions were partially offset by lower revenues of $41 million from the balance of the consolidated portfolio primarily due to reduced energy prices driven by new entrants in the market, as well as mild weather in the Northeast including drought conditions, which had a negative impact on the performance of the hydro assets. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures, presented as equity in earnings of equity method investees, declined $5 million in 2002 reflecting the $17 million charge recorded against investments in two wind projects discussed above and a gain of $23 million on the restructuring of a gas supply contract that was renegotiated to yield lower fuel costs and is expected to improve future cash flows, as well as improve equity in earnings from the project. In addition, equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2001 included a gain of $34 million resulting from the sale of a partnership interest in a geothermal project. This gain was almost entirely offset by the write off of affiliate debt associated with the partnership interest, which was included in other net. Excluding these events, earnings in 2002 from FPL Energys investment in equity method investees increased approximately $20 million over 2001. This increase is primarily due to increased contract prices, as the majority of t he output of the projects is sold under long term contracts with counterparties, as well as reduced fuel prices in the northeast region. FPL Energy is currently constructing five gas fired power plants with a total capacity of approximately 3,700 mw, and expects to add 700 to 1,200 mw of new wind generation by the end of 2003. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio growth to come from a mix of asset acquisitions and wind development (assuming the extension of the production tax credits beyond 2003). Interest charges increased $12 million during 2002 associated with higher debt balances due to growth in the business, partly offset by lower average interest rates. Interest income in 2002 declined approximately $14 million and includes, in 2001, interest from a favorable settlement with the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, the decline in interest income reflects lower interest rates. FPL Energys 2001 net income growth of $31 million was driven mainly by the expansion of its independent power generation portfolio. Portfolio additions contributed $22 million to the earnings growth including $11 million from a 495 mw natural gas fired unit in Texas, which became operational in late 2000, $2 million from a 171 mw natural gas fired peaking unit in the Mid Atlantic region and $9 million from five new wind projects totaling 843 mw in the Central and West regions. FPL Energys 2001 operating revenues and operating expenses increased by $108 million and $95 million, respectively, primarily due to project additions. These project additions resulted in increases to operating revenues of $124 million and operating expenses of $102 million (including fuel related costs of $61 million, O&M expenses of $17 million and depreciation expense of $24 million) during 2001. Increased revenues from project additions were partially offset by lower revenues of $11 million from the remaining consolidated portfolio mainly because sales of excess fuel at a natural gas fired generating facility in the Mid Atlantic region that occurred in 2001 did not recur in 2002. Operating expenses related to the remaining consolidated projects declined as a result of lower fuel costs of $13 million due to reduced fuel sales. Equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2001 increased $36 million due to a gain resulting from the sale of a partnership interest in a geothermal project which totaled $34 million. Earnings in 2001 also included a loss recognized in connection with the write off of affiliate debt associated with the sale, which was included in other net. The remaining increase in equity in earnings during 2001 was mainly due to higher energy prices. Interest charges increased $7 million during 2001 associated with higher debt balances due to growth in the business, partially offset by the effect of lower average interest rates. Since early June 2002, there has been a decline in the wholesale energy market, including deterioration in forward prices and reduced liquidity, as well as increasing credit concerns that have limited the number of counterparties with which FPL Energy does business. These market conditions have made it more difficult for FPL Energy to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices, to optimize the value of its assets and to contract the output of its plants. Any uncontracted output from the plants has been and will be sold into the market place at prevailing prices. FPL Energy expects, as its existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced will be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Expanded competition in a relaxed regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Wholesale energy markets have experienced lower demand and lower wholesale electricity prices as a result of weather and economic conditions and the oversupply of generation in certain regions. FPL Energy seeks to minimize its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. FPL Energys 2003 earnings are subject to variability due to commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. FPL Energys exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the high degree of contract coverage or hedging obtained for 2003. FPL Energys target is to have approximately 75% of its capacity under contract or hedged over the following twelve month period. As of December 31, 2002, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2003 is as follows: Asset Class Available MW(a) % MW Hedged Wind (b) 1,924 100 % Non wind assets under long term contract 1,255 98 % Merchants: Seabrook 955 96 % NEPOOL/PJM/NYPP 1,558 44 % (c) ERCOT 2,301 75 % (c) Other (WECC/SERC) 862 42 % (c) Total portfolio 8,855 77 % (a) Weighted to reflect in service dates; all assets adjusted for planned 2003 outages, including a refueling outage for Seabrook. (b) For further discussion regarding two wind projects involved in litigation that could potentially terminate long term power sales agreements, see Note 17 Other Contingencies. (c) Represents on peak mw hedged. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, FPL Energy is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. FPL Energy actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. The majority of FPL Energys 2003 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. FPL Energys results are affected by natural fluctuations in weather. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine. FPL Energy expects project restructuring activities to contribute 10 15% to its net income in 2003. FPL Energys wind development activities are expected to add between 700 and 1,200 mw during 2003, of which 434 mw have been announced. The majority of the new wind assets are expected to go into service during the second half of 2003, and consequently will have a greater impact on 2004 results of operations. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of FPL FiberNet and other corporate income and expenses such as interest income and interest expense. FPL FiberNets net income (loss) was $(55) million, $15 million and $8 million, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The net loss for 2002 includes impairment charges as a result of declines in the telecommunications market. FPL FiberNet completed valuation studies to assess the recoverability of its assets and as a result, in 2002, recorded charges of approximately $104 million ($64 million after tax). Of this amount, $85 million ($52 million after tax) represents an impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment, the fair value of which was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, FPL FiberNet decided not to pursue the planned build out of metro fiber rings in certain cities, and restructuring charges of $19 million ($12 million after tax) were recognized related to the write off of developme nt costs and inventory. These charges are included in restructuring and impairment charges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. Although the demand for telecommunication capacity continues to grow, many telecommunication companies have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 as market conditions deteriorated. This has caused customer credit to become a primary focus for the industry as credit downgrades have increased. Most of FPL FiberNets customers are required to pay in advance and past due amounts are closely monitored and actively pursued. Several of FPL FiberNets customers have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 and reserves for any pre petition receivables due to FPL FiberNet have been established. As a result of this deterioration and general economic conditions, FPL FiberNet has experienced a slowdown in its longhaul (intercity transport) business. FPL FiberNets metropolitan network continues to benefit from an expanding customer base and increasing use of FPL FiberNets network by its existing customers. FPL FiberNets capital expenditure forecast for 2003 07 is approximately $50 million. An indirect subsidiary of FPL Group has investments in several leveraged leases, two of which are with MCI Telecommunications Corporation (MCI). In July 2002, MCI filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. Due to the uncertainty of collectibility associated with these leveraged leases, FPL Group recorded a reserve during 2002 totaling $48 million ($30 million after tax), which is included in reserve for leveraged leases in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income. This reserve amount was offset by the favorable settlement of a prior year income tax matter. See Note 6. Also in 2001 and 2000, Corporate and Other recorded merger related expenses totaling $4 million ($3 million after tax) and $3 million ($2 million after tax), respectively. For additional information regarding these expenses, see Note 9. In connection with the redemption in 1999 of its one third ownership interest in Olympus Communications, L.P. (Olympus), an indirect subsidiary of FPL Group holds a note receivable from a limited partnership, of which Olympus is a general partner. The note receivable is secured by a pledge of the redeemed ownership interest. Olympus is an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia Communications Corp. (Adelphia). In June 2002, Adelphia and a number of its subsidiaries, including Olympus, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. The note receivable plus accrued interest totaled approximately $127 million at December 31, 2002 and are included in other investments on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets. The note was due on July 1, 2002 and is currently in default. Based on the most recent publicly available financial information set forth in Olympus Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2001, total assets of Olympus exceeded liabilities by approximately $3.6 billion and Olympus served 1,787,000 basic subscribers. Olympus has not filed its Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 or its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q with the SEC, and consequently the September 30, 2001 financial information may not be indicative of Olympus current financial position. In July 2002, the SEC filed suit against Adelphia and certain of its officers alleging that Adelphia fraudulently excluded billions of dollars of debt from its financial statements, misstated its financial and operating results and concealed rampant self dealing by the Rigas family, which controlled Adelphia. Pursuant to a bankruptcy court order, Olympus is required to file with the court updated financial information. After a number of moti ons to extend being granted by the court, updated financial information is now required to be filed by June 23, 2003. In August 2002, an affidavit was filed in the bankruptcy court proceedings by a director of Lazard Freres & Co. LLC stating that, based on his analysis, the market value of FPL Groups secured interest in Olympus exceeded the carrying value of the note receivable plus accrued interest. In February 2003, FPL Group obtained an evaluation of the Olympus assets from an independent third party. The results of the evaluation, which was based on the limited information available, indicated that there is no impairment. However, the ultimate collectibility of the note receivable cannot be assured. FPL Group will continue to monitor these developments. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and to grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses and, among other things, to redeem debt or pay maturing debt obligations. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. Credit ratings can affect FPL Groups and FPLs ability to obtain short and long term financing, the cost of such financing and the execution of their financing strategies. In 2002, FPL Group raised approximately $1.4 billion through the issuance of 5.75 million shares of common stock and 21.62 million Corporate Units. Also during 2002, FPL redeemed $750 million and issued $600 million of first mortgage bonds and FPL Group Capital entered into two variable rate term loans totaling $175 million. See Note 16. In October 2002, FPL and FPL Group Capital renewed their bank lines of credit that were scheduled to expire. Bank lines of credit available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 aggregated approximately $3.1 billion ($2.1 billion for FPL Group Capital and $1 billion for FPL). Approximately one half of these facilities expire in the second half of 2003, with the remainder expiring in 2004. These facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs as well as for general corporate purposes. In 2002, FPL received a $230 million tax refund out of an estimated $300 million it expects to receive as a result of an IRS ruling, and paid special dividends totaling $375 million to FPL Group. Also, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, FPL paid, as dividends to FPL Group, its net income available to FPL Group on a one month lag basis. FPLs charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of debt outstanding. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL Group Capital and FPL, the maintenance of a specific minimum level of credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit facilities. However, interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements and commitment fees are tied to credit ratings and would increase or decrease when ratings are changed. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain power purchase and other agreements. Securities of FPL Group and its subsidiaries are currently rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) and Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P). At February 28, 2003, Moodys and S&P had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys(a) S&P(a) FPL Group: Corporate credit rating N/A A FPL: Corporate credit rating A1 A/A 1 First mortgage bonds Aa3 A Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds Aa3/VMIG 1 A/A 1 Preferred stock A3 BBB+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 FPL Group Capital: Corporate credit rating N/A A/A 1 Debentures A2 A Commercial paper P 1 A 1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. In June 2002, Moodys confirmed its credit ratings for FPL and FPL Group Capital. The outlook indicated by Moodys for the ratings of FPL is stable, while the outlook for the ratings of FPL Group Capital is negative reflecting uncertainty in the wholesale generation market. In April 2002, following the announcement of the Seabrook acquisition, S&P placed FPL Groups credit rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. In November 2002, S&P removed the CreditWatch with negative implications for FPL Group. The outlook was revised to negative, and the "A" corporate credit rating was affirmed for FPL Group and subsidiaries. FPL Groups and FPLs commitments at December 31, 2002 were as follows: 2003 2004 05 2006 07 Thereafter Total (millions) Long Term Debt: FPL $ 70 $ 500 $ $ 1,875 $ 2,445 FPL Energy 35 78 57 212 382 Corporate and Other 275 1,675 1,136 3,086 Standby letters of credit: FPL 9 9 FPL Energy 320 320 Corporate and Other 4 4 Guarantees: FPL Energy 105 6 214 332 657 Corporate and Other 2 1 3 Other commitments: FPL(a) 1,365 2,635 1,925 5,925 FPL Energy(b) 224 325 262 188 999 Corporate and Other 10 10 Total $ 2,142 $ 3,821 $ 4,133 $ 3,744 $ 13,840 (a) Represents projected capital expenditures through 2007 to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth. Excludes minimum payments under purchased power and fuel contracts which are recoverable through various cost recovery clauses. See Note 17 Contracts. (b) Represents firm commitments in connection with the acquisition, development and expansion of independent power projects. In 2000, subsidiaries of FPL Energy entered into two off balance sheet financing arrangements with SPEs. In the first transaction, FPL Energys subsidiary entered into an operating lease agreement to lease a 550 mw combined cycle power generation plant. In the second transaction, the SPE was established to fund the construction of certain turbines and related equipment. This SPE arrangement was terminated in 2002. The SPE that remains had arranged funding commitments through debt and equity contributions from investors who are not affiliated with FPL Group. At December 31, 2002, $380 million had been drawn on these commitments. FPL Group Capital has guaranteed the obligations of the FPL Energy subsidiaries under these agreements, which are included in the table above. In addition, in 2002, FPL Energy received approximately $282 million which had previously been posted as collateral in connection with this off balance sheet financing arrangement. See Note 17 Off Balance Sheet Financing Arrangem ent. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which will replace the current accounting guidance for SPEs. As a result, entities that are deemed to be VIEs in which FPL Group or one of its subsidiaries is considered to be the "primary beneficiary" will be consolidated. Variable interests are considered to be contractual, ownership, or other monetary interests in an entity that fluctuate with changes in the entitys net asset value. Under its current structure, FPL Group believes that the SPE discussed above will be required to be consolidated beginning in July 2003. At December 31, 2002, FPL Groups maximum exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with this SPE was $215 million. FPL Energy has guaranteed certain performance obligations of a power plant owned by a wholly owned subsidiary as part of a power purchase agreement (PPA) that expires in 2027. Under the PPA, the subsidiary could incur market based liquidated damages for failure to meet a stated mechanical availability and guaranteed average output. Based on past performance of similar projects, management believes that the exposure associated with this guarantee is not material. FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including those under the FPL Group Capital debt, commercial paper and guarantees discussed above. FPL has no outstanding guarantees. FPL self insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution properties and maintains a funded storm and property insurance reserve to reduce the financial impact of storm losses. The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was approximately $298 million and $235 million, respectively, representing the amount in the storm fund plus related deferred income taxes. The December 31, 2002 balance includes a one time accrual of $35 million as approved by the FPSC. The FPSC has indicated that it would consider future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery from customers. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide cash for storm restoration costs. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel purchases and electricity sales, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in the derivatives fair value are recognized net in operating revenues for trading and managed hedge activities and in other net for non managed hedges in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. Settlement gains and losses are included within the line items in the statements of income to which they relate. See Note 5. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups derivative instruments for the year ended December 31, 2002, were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2002 Trading & Managed Hedges Non Managed Hedges & Hedges in OCI FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at beginning of period $ 1 $ (7 ) $ (6 ) Contracts realized or settled (8 ) (14 ) (22 ) Fair value of new contracts when entered into 9 9 Changes in valuation assumptions 2 2 (a) Other changes in fair values 2 67 69 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 $ 4 $ 48 $ 52 (b) (a) Change in valuation assumption of correlation between power and fuel prices. (b) Includes the fair value of FPLs derivative instruments of approximately $12 million at December 31, 2002. The sources of fair value and maturity of derivative instruments at December 31, 2002 were as follows: Maturity 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total (millions) Sources of Fair Value: Prices actively quoted $ 50 $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ 46 Prices provided by other external sources, primarily broker quotes 1 1 Prices based on models and other valuation methods 1 (1 ) 1 1 1 2 5 $ 51 $ (2 ) $ (1 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 52 Market Risk Sensitivity Substantially all financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group manages its interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates in relation to total capitalization. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated loss based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading and Managed Hedges Non Managed Hedges and Hedges in OCI Total FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2001 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 3 $ 5 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 December 31, 2002 $ $ $ $ 1 $ 3 $ 4 $ 1 $ 3 $ 4 Average for the period ended December 31, 2002 $ 1 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 8 $ 9 $ 2 $ 8 $ 10 Interest rate risk The special use funds of FPL Group include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value of approximately $1.184 billion and $1.020 billion ($1.066 billion and $1.020 billion for FPL) at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer term se curities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. See Note 12. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPLs and FPL Groups long term debt: December 31, 2002 2001 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value (millions) Long term debt of FPL, including current maturities $ 2,434 $ 2,578 (a) $ 2,579 $ 2,653 (a) Long term debt of FPL Group, including current maturities $ 5,895 $ 6,222 (a) $ 4,890 $ 5,080 (a) (a) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of the net liabilities would increase by approximately $134 million ($47 million for FPL) at December 31, 2002. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $689 million and $576 million ($578 million and $576 million for FPL) at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $69 million ($58 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment at December 31, 2002. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Effective January 1, 2002, FPL Group adopted FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." For information concerning the adoption of FAS 142, see Note 1 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations Beginning in 2003, FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note 1 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Guarantees In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." See Note 1 Guarantees. Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." See Note 1 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). Derivative Instruments FPL Group is currently analyzing the effect on its financial statements of a change in interpretation of Derivative Implementation Group Issue C11. For further discussion, see Note 5. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 
 
