Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MAPP Mid Continent Area Power Pool mortgage FPLs mortgage and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, as supplemented and amended mw megawatt(s) NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Council Note note to consolidated financial statements NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Policy Act Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 NYPP New York Power Pool Olympus Olympus Communications, L.P. O&M expenses other operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income PFS Private Fuel Storage, LLC PJM PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. PMI FPL Energy Power Marketing, Inc. Public Counsel State of Florida Office of Public Counsel PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended qualifying facilities non utility power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying facility under the PURPA Reform Act Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 RFP request for proposal ROE return on common equity RTO regional transmission organization Seabrook Seabrook Station SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SERC Southeastern Electric Reliability Council SPP Southwest Power Pool storm fund storm and property insurance reserve fund storm reserve storm and property insurance reserve VIE variable interest entity WECC Western Electricity Coordinating Council White Paper White Paper on Wholesale Power Market Platform CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, FPL Group and FPL are hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Groups or FPLs actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this combined Form 10 K, in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, believe, could, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection, target, outlook) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward looking. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qu alified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward looking statements) that could cause FPL Groups or FPLs actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL. Any forward looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Groups and FPLs operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Groups and FPLs actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements: FPL Group and FPL are subject to changes in laws or regulations, including the PURPA, and the Holding Company Act, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the FERC, the FPSC and the utility commissions of other states in which FPL Group has operations, and the NRC, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, operation and construction of transmission facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, return on common equity and equity ratio limits, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs). The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of costs that it considers excessive o r imprudently incurred. The regulatory process generally restricts FPLs ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. FPL Group and FPL are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future. FPL Group and FPL operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation of the production and sale of electricity. FPL Group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure. FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations could be affected by FPLs ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. In addition to these risks, FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including the ability to store and or dispose of spent nuclear fuel, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at FPL Groups and FPLs plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators. Breakdown or failure of an FPL Energy operating facility may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. FPL Groups and FPLs ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, FPL Group and FPL could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and or the write off of their investment in the project or improvement. FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. FPL Group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. In addition, FPLs use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the FPSC. There are other risks associated with FPL Groups non rate regulated businesses, particularly FPL Energy. In addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting FPL Energys success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power. There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of FPL Energy. FPL Energys inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty cred it risk or other risk measures could significantly impair FPL Groups future financial results. In keeping with industry trends, a portion of FPL Energys power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of FPL Groups financial results. In addition, FPL Energys business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, FPL Energys ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited. FPL Group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry. In addition, FPL Group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, which, in turn, could impact FPL Groups and FPLs ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs. FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations are affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at wind and hydro powered facilities. In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and or property damage, which could require additional costs to be incurred. FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws or corporate governance requirements. FPL Group and FPL are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, delay in economic recovery in the United States, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. FPL Groups and FPLs ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national, state or local events as well as company specific events. FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees or work stoppage. The issues and associated risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones FPL Group and FPL may face. Additional issues may arise or become material as the energy industry evolves. The risks and uncertainties associated with these additional issues could impair FPL Groups and FPLs businesses in the future. PART I Item 1. Business FPL GROUP FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the Holding Company Act, exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the Holding Company Act. It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida. FPL Groups principal subsidiary, FPL, is a rate regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. FPL Group Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the capital stock and provides funding for FPL Groups operating subsidiaries other than FPL. The business activities of these operating subsidiaries primarily consist of FPL Energys wholesale generation business. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group and its subsidiaries employed approximately 11,900 people. For financial information regarding FPL Groups business segments, see Note 17. Website Access to SEC Filings. FPL Group and FPL make their annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on the internet website, www.fplgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. FPL OPERATIONS General. FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group. FPL supplies electric service to a population of more than eight million throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. During 2004, FPL served approximately 4.2 million customer accounts. The percentage of FPLs operating revenues by customer class was as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Residential 54 % 56 % 55 % Commercial 37 37 36 Industrial 3 3 3 Other, including deferred or recovered clause revenues, the net change in unbilled revenues and any provision for retail rate refund 6 4 6 100 % 100 % 100 % FPL currently holds 173 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through 2034. Of the 173 franchise agreements one expires in August 2005, six expire in 2006 and 104 expire in 2007 through 2014. Ongoing negotiations are taking place to renew franchises with upcoming expirations. FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. Regulation. FPLs retail operations provided approximately 99% of FPLs 2004 operating revenues. Retail operations are regulated by the FPSC which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters. FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC in various respects, including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy. FPLs nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation. Environmental. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. During 2004, FPL spent approximately $61 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. FPLs capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $198 million for 2005 through 2007, including approximately $69 million in 2 005, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures below. Environmental regulations are subject to change. The following is a discussion of emerging federal initiatives and rules that could potentially affect FPL. FPL would generally seek recovery under its environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. Climate Change In 2002, President Bush announced new climate change initiatives for the United States, among which is a voluntary commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity in the United States by 18% by 2012. The Bush Administration is currently seeking commitments from various industrial sectors and individual companies to reach this goal. FPL Group has responded to the administrations request by becoming a charter signatory to the Administrations Climate Leaders Program. As a participant in this voluntary program, FPL Group has inventoried its greenhouse gas emission rates and has committed to a 2008 reduction target of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per megawatt hour. FPL Group believes that the planned operation of its generating portfolio, along with its current efficiency initiatives, greenhouse gas management efforts and increased use of renewable energy, will allow it to achieve this target. In addition to the voluntary initiative, the U.S. Congress is considering several legislative proposals that would establish new mandatory regulatory requirements and reduction targets for greenhouse gases. Based on the most current reference data available from government sources, FPL Group is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt hour. However, these legislative proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL Groups generating units and or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to FPL Group and FPL could be material, depending on the eventual structure of a mandatory program. Multi Pollutant Legislation The U.S. Congress and the Bush Administration are considering several legislative proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and in some proposals, carbon dioxide. Based on the most current reference data available from government sources, FPL Group is among the lowest generators of these emissions when measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds per megawatt hour. However, these multi pollutant proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL Groups generating units and or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to FPL Group and FPL could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted. Clean Air Act Mercury/Nickel Rule In 2004, the EPA published a proposed rule pursuant to Section 112 of the Clean Air Act to set MACT standards for the emissions of mercury from coal fired electric utility steam generating units to be met by the end of 2007. In March 2004, the EPA published a Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to propose a mercury emissions cap and trade program requiring reductions in 2010 and 2018 as an alternative to the proposed MACT rule. The EPA is taking comments on these alternatives and plans to issue a final rule by March 2005. There is considerable opposition to the proposed rule and supplemental notice from some environmental groups, which contend that there should be more stringent control of mercury emissions. While the final requirements are uncertain, it is possible that Scherer Unit No. 4 and St. Johns River Power Park Units Nos. 1 and 2, as well as certain coal fired units from which FPL purchases power, may be re quired to add additional pollution control equipment or purchase emission allowances in order to achieve compliance with the mercury emission limits. In addition to the mercury MACT standards for coal fired facilities, in 2004 the EPA also proposed MACT standards for nickel emissions from oil fired electric generating facilities to be met by the end of 2007. While the final requirements are uncertain, it is possible that the rule may apply to FPLs residual oil fired units and may require additional pollution control equipment at these facilities or may dictate changes in operational parameters. Some in the electric industry believe that the EPA does not have sufficient data to support this rulemaking. The proposed nickel MACT rule is anticipated to be final during the second quarter of 2005. Clean Air Act Interstate Air Quality Rule In 2004, the EPA proposed the Interstate Air Quality Rule, which is designed to bring into compliance the majority of areas in the United States that are not currently expected to meet new air quality standards for fine particulates (PM 2.5) and ozone. The proposed rule requires sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states where their emissions are transported to downwind states resulting in an adverse impact to air quality. The proposed rule requires reductions in SO2 and NOx by 2010 and by 2015, respectively, eventually reaching a nationwide reduction of 65% below a 2002 baseline emission rate for each. In the proposed rule, Florida and Georgia were determined to be contributo rs of PM 2.5 to downwind states through modeling. However, FPL believes that the emissions from its Florida generating facilities are not affecting the non attainment status of downwind areas. While the final requirements are uncertain, it is possible that FPL generating facilities in Florida and Georgia may be required to add additional SO2 and NOx controls or purchase emission allowances to meet the compliance requirements of the final rule. Clean Water Act Section 316(b) In 2004, the EPA issued a rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to address intake structures at existing power plants with once through cooling water systems. The rule requires FPL to demonstrate that it has met or will meet new impingement mortality (the loss of organisms against screens and other exclusion devices) and or entrainment (the loss of organisms by passing them through the cooling system) reductions by complying with one of five alternatives, including the authorized use of technology, operational measures or restoration measures, and may involve the performance of biological studies. The new rules will impact eight of FPLs generating facilities (Cape Canaveral, Cutler, Fort Myers, Lauderdale, Port Everglades, Sanford, Riviera and St. Lucie). FPL will be conducting the nec essary studies/analyses over the next several years and implementing solutions based upon regulatory approvals. The cost of these solutions, as well as any ongoing biological monitoring that may be required, has not yet been determined. Retail Ratemaking. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms. The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPLs investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). The rate of return on rate base approximates FPLs weighted average cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and preferred stock and, typically, an allowed ROE. The FPSC monitors FPLs actual ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC. The FPSC does not provide assurance that an allowed ROE will be achieved. Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiations, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC, Public Counsel or a substantially affected party. In 2002, the FPSC approved a rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The agreement includes a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002(a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund was limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the rate agreement, FPL does not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL continues to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. Under the rate agreement, depreciation was and will be reduced on FPLs plant in service by $125 million in each year 2002 through 2005. See Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. On January 21, 2005, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate proceeding in March 2005. Although FPL has not finalized its 2006 and 2007 revenue requirements, it expects to request a $400 million to $450 million annual increase in base rates beginning on January 1, 2006 and an additional annual base rate increase of approximately $130 million in mid 2007 to cover the costs associated with the 1,150 mw natural gas fired unit at Turkey Point expected to be placed in service in mid 2007. Hearings on the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2005 and a final decision is expected by the end of 2005. During the third quarter of 2004, FPL was impacted by Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne, each of which did major damage in parts of FPLs service territory and collectively resulted in over 5.4 million customer power outages with approximately three quarters of FPLs customers losing power during at least one hurricane. At December 31, 2004, storm costs expected to be recoverable from customers exceeded the balance of the storm reserve by approximately $536 million. See Note 1 Storm Fund and Storm Reserve Deficiency. During February 2005, pursuant to an FPSC order, FPL began recovering storm restoration costs from customers, subject to refund, pending the outcome of a hearing in April 2005 to determine the amount of storm restoration costs that FPL will be allowed to recover from customers. Fuel costs are recovered from customers through levelized charges per kwh established under the fuel clause. These charges are calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment charges for prior periods. An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual costs and usage. In 2004, approximately $3.7 billion of costs were recovered through the fuel clause. The FPSC has approved a risk management fuel procurement program which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPLs fuel requirements. The results of the program are reviewed by the FPSC as part of the annual review of fuel costs. See Energy Marketing and Trading, Managements Discussion Results of Operations, Note 1 Regulation and Note 3. Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base rates. In 2004, approximately $578 million of costs were recovered through the capacity clause. Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled approximately $167 million in 2004 and were recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. Costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 totaled $12 million in 2004 and are recovered through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base rates. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. Competition. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2004, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail custome rs, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed that transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Within the last few years, these state restructuring efforts have diminished, and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an RFP. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In June 2004, the FPSC approved FPLs proposal to build an 1,150 mw natural gas fired plant at its Turkey Point site with a planned in service date of mid 2007, which was subsequently approved by the Siting Board (comprised of the Florida governor and cabinet) under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act in February 2005. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. In December 2001, the FPSC determined that the RTO as proposed was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. In March 2002, FPL, Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure of GridFlorida from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. Under the proposal, FPL would continue to own its transmission lines and an ISO would manage them. In September 2002, the FPSC approved many of the aspects of the modified RTO proposal, administratively approving recovery of GridFloridas incremental costs through the capacity clause. In October 2002, the Public Counsel filed a notice of administrative appeal with the Supreme Court of Florida seeking an appeal of the FPSCs order, including FPLs recovery of incremental costs. In June 2003, the Florida Supreme Court dismissed the Public Counsels appeal of the FPSCs approval of GridFlorida without prejudice concluding that the appeal was premature because the FPSC proceedings had not yet been completed and not all aspects of the FPSCs order on appeal were considered final agency action. The FPSC has restored the GridFlorida docket to active status and in December 2003 issued a procedural order establishing three workshops through 2004 to address GridFlorida issues. A pricing workshop and a market design workshop were held in March and May 2004, respectively. The thir d workshop scheduled for August 2004 was postponed pending the results of a cost benefit analysis of GridFlorida. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. The proposed rule would, among other things, require FERC regulated entities, including FPL, that own, control or operate transmission facilities to hire an independent transmission provider, which can be an RTO such as GridFlorida, for the operation of those facilities. The proposed rule also would require the independent transmission provider to administer various spot markets for the sale of electricity and ancillary services and to manage congestion on the transmission system. In April 2003, the FERC issued a White Paper responding to comments on its proposed rule. The White Paper indicates that the FERC intends to be more flexible on how and when the final rule will be implemented, defer to regional state committees to address significant RTO/ISO features, require regulated utilities to join RTOs or ISOs and require RTOs to implement spot markets. Legislators and regulators from the southeast and western states have expressed strong reservations about the FERCs proposal. There has been no further activity by the FERC since 2003. FPL is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, of the proposed rule. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. System Capability and Load. FPL is currently constructing approximately 1,900 mw of natural gas combined cycle generation at its Martin and Manatee sites with a planned in service date of June 2005. See Competition regarding recent approvals for an additional 1,150 mw of generating capacity with a planned in service date of mid 2007. At December 31, 2004, FPLs resources for serving load consisted of 22,412 mw, of which 18,940 mw are from FPL owned facilities (see Item 2 Generating Facilities) and 3,472 mw are obtained through purchased power contracts (see Note 16 Contracts). FPLs projected reserve margin for the summer of 2005 is 25%. This reserve margin will be achieved through the combination of output from FPLs generating units, purchased power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of load management, which was estimated to be 1,547 mw at December 31, 2004. Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. However, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPLs service territory. During the summer of 2004, FPL set three all time system peaks : 20,250 mw on June 23, 2004, 20,306 mw on July 6, 2004 and 20,545 mw on July 14, 2004. FPL had adequate resources available at the time of these peaks to meet customer demand. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures at FPL consist of the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities. FPLs capital expenditures totaled $1.4 billion in 2004 (including AFUDC of approximately $48 million), $1.4 billion in 2003 (including AFUDC of approximately $18 million) and $1.3 billion in 2002. Capital expenditures for 2005 through 2009 are estimated to be as follows: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total FPL: (millions) Generation: (a) New (b) $ 385 $ 235 $ 525 $ 250 $ 60 $ 1,455 Existing 540 475 480 325 395 2,215 Transmission and distribution 695 730 740 715 715 3,595 Nuclear fuel 70 100 110 75 105 460 General and other 145 130 165 165 160 765 Total $ 1,835 $ 1,670 $ 2,020 $ 1,530 $ 1,435 $ 8,490 (a) Includes AFUDC of approximately $50 million, $40 million, $46 million and $12 million in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. (b) Includes generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration, licensing and AFUDC. These estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from this estimate. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 16 Commitments. Nuclear Operations. FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie. Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 received operating license extensions in 2002, which give FPL the option to operate these units until 2032 and 2033, respectively. The NRC extended the operating licenses for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 during 2003, which give FPL the option to operate these units until 2036 and 2043, respectively. The original license expiration dates for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 are 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2023, respectively. FPL has not yet decided to operate past the original license expiration dates, although FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. The decision will be made for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 by 2007 and for St. Lucie Unit s Nos. 1 and 2 by 2011. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages by unit are as follows: Refueling Outage Unit Most Recent Next Scheduled St. Lucie Unit No. 1 Spring 2004 Fall 2005 (a) St. Lucie Unit No. 2 January 2005 Spring 2006 Turkey Point Unit No. 3 Fall 2004 (b) Spring 2006 Turkey Point Unit No. 4 Fall 2003 Spring 2005 (a) (a) FPL anticipates replacing the reactor vessel head during this outage, which will extend the number of days the unit will be removed from service to approximately 65 days. (b) FPL replaced the reactor vessel head during this outage. The NRCs regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years prior to the projected end of plant operation. FPLs current plans, under the existing operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2016 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 beginning in 2023. See estimated decommissioning cost data in Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs. In 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to a previously issued NRC bulletin, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including FPL, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at each units scheduled refueling outage to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. During the scheduled refueling outages for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in October 2002 and April 2004, Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in March 2003 and Turkey Point Unit No. 4 in October 2003, FPL performed visual and volumetric inspections and found no degradation associated with the reactor vessel heads. In late April and early May 2003, while volumetric inspections of the reactor vessel head at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 were being performed during a scheduled refueling outage, two CRDM nozzles were found with one small crack in each. Both cracks were less than 50% through the thickness of the CRDM nozzle. No leakage was observed and both cracks were repaired during the outage. During a January 2005 St. Lucie Unit No. 2 scheduled refueling outage, the volumetric inspections of the reactor vessel head revealed three CRDM nozzles with small cracks. The cracks were less than 25% through the thickness of the CRDM nozzle. No leakage was observed and the cracks were repaired during the outage. In January 2005, FPL received permission from the NRC to plug up to 30% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generator tubes. To date, 18.9% of these tubes have been plugged. It is possible that during St. Lucie No. 2s next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2006 the 30% tube plugging limit could be exceeded. Management is currently evaluating various options, including sleeving degraded tubes, to stay within the tube plugging limit. FPL has requested NRC approval to sleeve degraded tubes as an alternative to plugging. Management intends to replace the reactor vessel head and steam generators at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. During the fall of 2004, FPL replaced the reactor vessel head at Turkey Point Unit No. 3 during its scheduled refueling outage. FPL anticipates replacing the reactor vessel heads at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 and St. Lucie Unit No. 1 during their next scheduled refueling outage. Reactor vessel head replacements for these two units are expected to add approximately 35 days to the number of days a unit is removed from service during a typical scheduled refueling outage. The cost for the reactor vessel heads and steam generators is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures above. In 2003, the NRC issued a bulletin recommending that utilities with bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations perform visual inspections. Visual inspections of the bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations of Turkey Point Unit No. 4 were performed in 2003 during its scheduled refueling outage and no evidence of leakage from these penetrations was noted. During 2004, the NRC approved an official request by FPL to perform volumetric rather than visual inspections of Turkey Point Unit Nos. 3 and 4s bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations. During Turkey Point Unit No. 3s most recent refueling outage in the fall of 2004, a volumetric inspection was performed and no evidence of leakage from these penetrations was noted. Turkey Point Unit No. 4 will perform volumetric inspections of the bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations at its next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2005. St. Lucie Units No. 1 and 2 do not have bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations. During 2003, nuclear utilities, other than FPL, identified that pressurizer heater sleeves made with a particular material (alloy 600) were experiencing penetration cracks and leaks as a result of primary water stress corrosion cracking. As a result, in May 2004, the NRC issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. FPL has filed a response to the bulletin. In the spring of 2004, prior to the issue of the NRC bulletin, St. Lucie Unit No. 1 performed visual inspections within the scope of the bulletin and no leaks were identified. St. Lucie Unit No. 2 performed similar inspections at its January 2005 scheduled refueling outage and no leaks were identified. Due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, FPL has decided to replace St. Lucie Unit No. 1s pressurizer during its schedu led refueling and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2005. The estimated cost for the pressurizer is included in estimated capital expenditures above. See Note 16 Commitments. FPL has decided to repair St. Lucie Unit No. 2s pressurizer heater sleeve penetrations during its scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007. The estimated cost of this repair is approximately $12 million, which will be charged to O&M expense. All pressurizer penetrations and welds at Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. Fuel. FPLs generating plants use a variety of fuels. See Item 2 Generating Facilities and Note 16 Contracts. The diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve an economical fuel mix. In order to further diversify the companys sources of natural gas and increase supply reliability on behalf of its customers, FPL issued an RFP during 2004 for long term supplies of regasified liquified natural gas (LNG). The RFP seeks deliveries of LNG beginning as early as 2007. FPLs decision on the RFP is expected by mid 2005. FPL has four firm transportation contracts in place with FGT and one firm transportation contract with Gulfstream that together will satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units and the Martin and Manatee units currently under construction. The four existing FGT contracts expire in 2015, 2021 and 2022, while the Gulfstream contract expires in 2028. Each of the contracts expiring in 2015 may be extended by FPL until 2030. To the extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible gas transportation service from FGT and Gulfstream based on pipeline availability. FPL has several short and medium term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPLs anticipated needs for natural gas. The remainder of FPLs gas requirements are purchased under other contracts and in the spot market. FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos. 1 and 2, long term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel needs for those units. All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long term contracts. FPLs remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market. FPLs oil requirements are obtained under short term contracts and in the spot market. FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. See Note 1 Nuclear Fuel. In 2003, FPL Group and FPL began consolidating the lessor entity in accordance with FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." See Note 9 FPL. The contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of FPLs nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from 2006 through 2013. Currently, FPL is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the DOE. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. Through December 2004, FPL has paid approximately $520 million in such fees to the DOEs nuclear waste fund. The DOE did not meet its statutory obligat ion for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. In 1997, a court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state governments and utility commissions, that the DOE could not assert a claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking money damages arising out of the DOEs failure to perform its obligations. In 1998, FPL filed a lawsuit against the DOE seeking damages caused by the DOEs failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPLs nuclear power plants. The matter is pending. In the interim, FPL is investigating other alternatives to provide adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel. Based on current projections, FPL will lose its ability to store additional spent fuel on site for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 in 2008, St. Lucie Unit No. 2 in 2007, Turkey Point Unit No. 3 in 2010 and Turkey Point Unit No. 4 in 2012. These projections are based on addition al space provided by new cask pit area storage racks installed at the Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and St. Lucie Unit No. 1 spent fuel pools in 2004. Once the St. Lucie Unit No. 2 cask pit rack is installed, that unit will extend its capability to store spent fuel through 2010. In addition, degradation in a material used in the spent fuel pools at St. Lucie Unit No. 1 and Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 could result in implementation of alternative spent fuel storage options sooner than projected. FPL is pursuing dry cask storage facilities at St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 and Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4, which would extend their capability to store spent fuel indefinitely. Dry storage containers could be located at FPLs nuclear plant sites and or at a facility operated by PFS in Utah. PFS is a consortium of eight utilities seeking to license, construct and operate an independent spent fuel storage facility. FPL joined the consortium in May 2000. PFS has filed a license application with the NRC and hearings on the application have been completed. In February 2005, the ASLB recommended to the NRC to grant PFSs operating license. The State of Utah has appealed certain decisions of the ASLB and opposes the license application. In 2002, the governor of Nevada submitted a Notice of Disapproval to Congress regarding President Bushs recommendation to develop Yucca Mountain as a nuclear waste depository. The Yucca Mountain site is the DOEs recommended location to store and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste. During May and July 2002, Congress overrode the Notice of Disapproval through a majority vote of both houses. The President signed the joint resolution of Congress into law in 2002. The State of Nevada has initiated legal actions to attempt to block the project. In 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled on a series of challenges to the statutes and regulations established to govern a nuclear waste depository at the Yucca Mountain site. The court denied all the challenges except for one, regarding an EPA rule governing the time period the public would be protected from h ypothetical radiation leaks at the Yucca Mountain repository. The courts decision will likely result in revisions to the EPAs and NRCs licensing rules for Yucca Mountain and could further delay the licensing process for Yucca Mountain beyond the currently projected commencement date of 2010 proposed by the DOE. Energy Marketing and Trading. EMT, a division of FPL, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPLs use in power generation and sells excess gas, oil and electric power. EMT also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity sales and purchases. Substantially all of the results of EMTs activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. See Retail Ratemaking, Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3. Electric and Magnetic Fields. Over the past 20 years, there has been public, scientific, and regulatory attention given to the question of whether EMF causes or contributes to adverse health effects. These fields exist whenever there is a flow of electricity, including in power lines, appliances and building wiring. Some epidemiological studies (which typically examine the incidence of disease in population groups) have reported a statistical association between EMF and some types of cancer, including childhood and adult leukemia. Other studies have not reported any such relationship. Neither these epidemiological studies nor the more controlled laboratory studies of EMF have produced conclusive evidence that EMF causes or contributes to any adverse health effects. In 1999, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, at the culmination of a five year federally supported research effort, pronounced that the scientific support for an EMF cancer link is marginal and concluded that the probability that EMF exposure is truly a health hazard is small but cannot be completely discounted. In 2001, the IARC conducted an evaluation of power frequency EMF and cancer; it classified power frequency magnetic fields as "possibly carcinogenic" based on an association with childhood leukemia reported in some epidemiology studies. The IARC did not conclude that power frequency EMF cause or contribute to the development of childhood leukemia or any other cancer. In 2002, the California Department of Health Services (CDHS) submitted its EMF Risk Evaluation report to the California Public Utility Commission. The report concluded in part that "To one degree or another, all three of the CDHS scientists are inclined to believe that EMF can cause some degree of increased risk of childhood leukemia, adult brain cancer, Lou Gehrigs Disease, and miscarriage." In 2002, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences said in a booklet it published on EMF: "For most health outcomes, there is no evidence that EMF exposures have adverse effects. There is some evidence from epidemiology studies that exposure to power frequency EMF is associated with an increased risk for childhood leukemia. This association is difficult to interpret in the absence of reproducible laboratory evidence or a scientific explanation that links magnetic fields with childhood leukemia." Florida has had EMF regulations in place for many years, and FPL believes it is in compliance with the FDEP regulations regarding EMF levels within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines. Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities. It is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required. Currently, there are no such changes proposed to the FDEP regulations. Employees. FPL had approximately 10,000 employees at December 31, 2004. Approximately 33% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL which has been extended until October 31, 2005. Meanwhile, FPL and the IBEW are discussing a proposal for a successor agreement. FPL ENERGY OPERATIONS General. FPL Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in 1998 to aggregate FPL Groups existing wholesale generation business. It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. FPL Energy currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates domestic electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets. FPL Energy manages or participates in the management of approximately 83% of its projects, which represent approximately 96% of the net generating capacity in which FPL Energy has an ownership interest. At December 31, 2004, FPL Energy had net generating capability totaling 11,520 mw, all of which consisted of ownership interests in operating independent power projects (see Item 2 Generating Facilities). Generation capacity spans various regions thereby reducing seasonal volatility on a portfolio basis.&nbsp ; At December 31, 2004, the percentage of capacity by NERC region or power pool was: NERC Region/Power Pool Percentage of Generation Capacity MAPP/MAIN/SPP/ERCOT 34 % NEPOOL/NYPP 25 % SERC/PJM 24 % WECC 17 % Fuel sources for these projects were as follows: Fuel Source Percentage of Generation Capacity Natural Gas 57 % Wind 24 % Nuclear 9 % Oil 6 % Hydro 3 % Other 1 % FPL Energy expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind development due to the extension of the production tax credit program through 2005 for new wind facilities, as well as from asset acquisitions. FPL Energy plans to add a total of 250 mw to 750 mw of wind generation by the end of 2005, including approximately 220 mw which are currently under construction and are expected to be in service by mid 2005. FPL Energys capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately $0.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $2.1 billion in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2005 through 2009 are estimated to be as follows: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Total (millions) FPL Energy: Wind (a) $ 405 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 425 Gas 20 20 10 5 10 65 Nuclear fuel and other 165 115 110 90 95 575 Total $ 590 $ 140 $ 125 $ 100 $ 110 $ 1,065 (a) FPL Energys capital expenditures for new wind projects are estimated through 2005, when the production tax credits are scheduled to expire. The 2005 amount reflects expenditures associated with approximately 220 mw of wind generation, which have been announced and are currently under construction, as well as committed expenditures for other expected wind additions in 2005. During 2002, FPL Energy was engaged in the development of various other natural gas projects. As a result of depressed economic conditions coupled with an oversupply of energy generating facilities in certain markets, projected profit margins for these projects declined and were not sufficient to cover the cost of capital. Therefore, FPL Energy made a strategic decision during 2002 to substantially exit the fossil fueled greenfield merchant power plant development business for the foreseeable future. As a result, development costs associated with these abandoned projects were written off to expense. Furthermore, FPL Energy realigned its organizational structure during 2002 to lower general and administrative expenses and took other actions associated with the restructuring of its business. See Managements Discussion Results of Operations FPL Energy and Note 6 FPL Energy. Energy Marketing and Trading. PMI, a subsidiary of FPL Energy, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electric power. PMI procures natural gas and oil for FPL Energys use in power generation and sells any excess gas. PMI also sells the output from FPL Energys plants which has not been sold under long term contracts and purchases replacement power. PMI uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of FPL Energys power generation assets. To a lesser extent, PMI engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. In 2003, FPL Energy began providing full service requirements services to distribution utilities in certain markets. These services include load following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. The results of PMIs activities are recognized in FPL Energys operating results. See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 Energy Trading and Note 3. Employees. FPL Energy had approximately 1,750 employees at December 31, 2004. The IBEW and the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) represented approximately 5% and 11%, respectively, of FPL Energys employees. The collective bargaining agreement between an FPL Energy subsidiary and the IBEW expires in February 2008 and the collective bargaining agreement between an FPL Energy subsidiary and the UWUA expires in September 2008. Regulation. At December 31, 2004, approximately 6% of FPL Energys net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under PURPA. FPL Energys qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels, biomass or waste product combustion. Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, the application of the Holding Company Act, many provisions of the Federal Power Act, and state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. FPL Energy also has ownership interests in operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act, which represent approximately 94% of FPL Energys net generating capacity. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers.& nbsp; They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. FPL Energys exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities. While projects with qualifying facility and exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. FPL Energy continues to evaluate the FERCs proposed rule on standard market design in areas where it is not already in effect. See FPL Operations Competition. California is scheduled to implement standard market design in the first quarter of 2007. ERCOT is considering adopting standard market design, or portions thereof, with potential implementation as soon as 2006. In both markets, the final market design is not fully known at this time and FPL Energy is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on its operations resulting from the implementation of standard market design. Environmental. FPL Energy is subject to the same environmental laws and regulations and is affected by many of the same emerging issues included in the discussion of FPLs business (see FPL Operations Environmental for details relating to FPL Group which include FPL Energy issues). While the final requirements for MACT standards for nickel emissions are uncertain, it is possible that the final Clean Air Act Mercury/Nickel Rule may require an oil fired FPL Energy unit in Maine to add pollution control equipment or may dictate changes in operational parameters. In addition, pursuant to a rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, two FPL Energy plants (Seabrook and an oil fired plant in Maine) will be required to demonstrate that they currently meet, or will meet, the prescribed performance standards for the reduction of impingement and or entrainment at their cooling water intakes through technol ogy, operational measures or restoration measures. FPL Energy will be conducting the necessary studies/analyses over the next several years and implementing solutions based upon regulatory approvals. The cost of these solutions, as well as any ongoing biological monitoring that may be required, has not yet been determined. During 2004, FPL Energy spent approximately $1 million on capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations. FPL Energys capital additions to comply with environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $11 million for 2005 through 2007, including approximately $7 million in 2005, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in General above. Competition. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans or available from other competitors and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. However, the current oversupply of generation in certain regions results in significant pressure on natural gas fired plant margins. FPL Energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. As of December 31, 2004, FPL Energy had 78% of its on peak capacity under contract for 2005. Over the last several years, contracting for the sale of electricity output was more difficult as a result of overcapacity in certain regio ns and diminished market liquidity due to fewer creditworthy counterparties. However, the major markets in which FPL Energy operates have shown modest signs of improvement during 2004. Given current market conditions, when FPL Energys existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced may be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Portfolio by Category. FPL Energys assets can be categorized into the following three groups: wind assets, contracted assets and merchant assets. As of December 31, 2004, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2005 was as follows: Asset Class Available MW (a) % MW Under Contract Wind 2,917 98 %(b) Contracted (c) 2,170 99 %(b) Merchant: (d) NEPOOL 2,304 72 %(e) ERCOT 2,644 79 %(e) All Other 1,274 8 %(e) Total portfolio 11,309 78 %(e) (a) Weighted to reflect in service dates, planned maintenance and a refueling outage at Seabrook in 2005. (b) Reflects round the clock mw under contract. (c) Includes all projects with mid to long term purchase power contracts for substantially all of their output. (d) Includes only those facilities that require active hedging. (e) Reflects on peak mw under contract. Wind Assets At December 31, 2004, FPL Energy had ownership interests in wind plants with a combined capacity of approximately 2,758 mw (net ownership). All of these wind assets have contracts with utilities and power marketers predominantly under fixed price agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2028. FPL Energy operates all but nine of these wind facilities. Approximately 89% of FPL Energys net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act. The remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under PURPA. FPL Energys wind facilities are located in fifteen states, thereby reducing weather related performance risk on a portfolio basis. FPL Energy plans to add a total of 250 mw to 750 mw of wind generation by the end of 2005, including approximately 220 mw which are currently under construction and are expected to be in service by mid 2005. Contracted At December 31, 2004, FPL Energy had 2,170 mw of contracted assets. The contracted category includes all projects with mid to long term contracts for substantially all of their output. Essentially all of these contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2005 to 2021 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2033. Approximately 1,989 mw of this capacity is gas fired generation. The remaining 181 mw uses a variety of fuels and technologies such as waste to energy, oil, solar, coal and petroleum coke. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 83% of FPL Energys generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the Holding Company Act and the remaining 17% have qualifying facility status under PURPA. In January 2005, FPL Energy purchased a 45% ownership interest, o r approximately 68 mw, in several solar power projects in California, the cost of which is included in capital expenditures set forth in General above. All power generated by these solar projects is sold under long term contracts. Merchant Assets At December 31, 2004, FPL Energys portfolio of merchant assets includes 6,592 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 2,700 mw is located in the ERCOT region, 2,591 mw in the NEPOOL region and 1,301 mw in other regions. The merchant assets include 706 mw of peak generating facilities. Merchant assets are plants that do not have long term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. Approximately 76% of the merchant assets have gas supply agreements or a combination of gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on peak gas requirements. PMI uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. Reducing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, however, primarily counterparty and operational risks. FPL Energys 744 mw gas fired plant in the PJM region that had previously been under construction went into service in December 2004. Nuclear Operations. In 2002, an FPL Energy subsidiary purchased an 88.23% undivided interest in Seabrook, located in New Hampshire. FPL Energys net ownership interest in Seabrooks capacity consists of 1,024 mw of nuclear generation. FPL Energy is responsible for all plant operations. The current operating license for Seabrook expires in 2026. FPL Energy intends to seek approval from the NRC to extend the units license to recapture the period of non operation from 1986 to 1990, in addition to a 20 year license extension. If granted, these approvals would extend the term of the NRC operating license for Seabrook to 2050. Preparations are in progress for a power uprate at Seabrook that is expected to increase FPL Energys proportionate share of plant capability by approximately 84 mw, the estimated future costs of which are included in FPL Energys estimated capital expen ditures above. This uprate, which has been approved by the New England ISO, will be implemented in two phases, pending approval by the NRC. The first phase of the uprate is expected to add approximately 71 mw and is expected to be performed during the next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2005. The second phase of the uprate is expected to add an additional 13 mw during the following scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2006. At the time of the Seabrook acquisition, FPL Energy assumed responsibility for the ultimate decommissioning of the plant, the cost of which will be shared on a pro rata basis by the joint owners. See estimated decommissioning cost data in Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs FPL Energy. In 2003, the NRC issued an order, subsequent to a previously issued NRC bulletin, requiring all pressurized water reactor licensees, including Seabrook, to perform visual and volumetric inspections of reactor vessel heads at certain scheduled refueling outages to identify if degradation such as cracking or corrosion has occurred. Seabrook will be required to perform 100% visual and volumetric inspections during the fall 2006 refueling outage, and subsequently, visual inspections every third refueling outage and volumetric inspections every fourth refueling outage. In 2003, the NRC issued a bulletin recommending that utilities with bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations perform visual inspections. In October 2003, visual inspections of the bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations were performed during Seabrooks scheduled refueling outage, and no evidence of leakage from these penetrations was noted. In 2004, the NRC issued a bulletin requesting nuclear operators to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. FPL Energy has filed a response to the bulletin. Seabrook will perform visual inspections during the April 2005 refueling outage. Seabrook has several contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2006 to 2014. See Note 16 Contracts. Currently, Seabrook is storing spent fuel on site pending its removal by the DOE. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants. The total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the DOEs nuclear waste fund for Seabrook, including amounts paid by all joint owners since the start of Seabrooks operation, is approximately $113 million, of which FPL Energy has paid approximately $16 million since the date of the Seabrook acquisition. In 2004, FPL Energy and Seabrooks other joint owners filed a lawsuit against the DOE seeking damages caused by the DOEs f ailure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from the Seabrook facility. The matter is pending. For details on the current status of permanent fuel storage with the DOE see FPL Operations Fuel. Based on current projections, FPL Energy will lose its ability to store spent fuel at Seabrook as early as 2009. FPL Energy is investigating other alternatives to expand its spent nuclear fuel storage capacity at Seabrook. OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS FPL Groups Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities, primarily FPL FiberNet, that are not separately reportable. See Note 17. FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Groups fiber optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations. Accordingly, in 2000, FPLs existing fiber optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet. FPL FiberNet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. FPL FiberNet leases wholesale fiber optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers, primarily telephone, internet and other telecommunications companies. Dark fiber in the Florida metro market is also sold to third parties. FPL FiberNets primary business focus is the Florida metro market. Metro networks cover Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando and Jacksonville. FPL FiberNet also has a long haul network within Florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates. &nbsp ;At December 31, 2004, FPL FiberNets network consisted of approximately 2,500 route miles, which interconnected major cities throughout Florida. During 2003, FPL FiberNet added the latest generation of Ethernet services which provides customers the option to upgrade their existing telecommunications network. Due to the changing telecommunications market, FPL FiberNet previously completed valuation studies to assess the recoverability of its assets and as a result, in 2002, wrote off some of these assets to expense. This write off represented an impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment, the fair value of which was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, FPL FiberNet decided not to pursue the planned build out of metro fiber rings in certain cities, and restructuring charges were recognized in 2002 related to the write off of development costs and inventory. See Managements Discussion Results of Operati ons Corporate and Other and Note 6 2002 Corporate and Other. At December 31, 2004, FPL Groups investment in FPL FiberNet totaled approximately $217 million. FPL FiberNet invested approximately $6 million during 2004 and plans to invest a total of $35 million over the next five years to meet customers specific requirements and sustain its fiber optic network. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FPL GROUP (a) Name Age Position Effective Date Paul I. Cutler 45 Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of FPL Group February 19, 2003 Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of FPL February 18, 2003 K. Michael Davis 58 Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL Group May 13, 1991 Vice President, Accounting, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL July 1, 1991 Moray P. Dewhurst 49 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL Group July 17, 2001 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL July 19, 2001 Robert H. Escoto 51 Vice President, Human Resources of FPL Group January 25, 2005 Senior Vice President, Human Resources of FPL February 21, 2005 Lewis Hay, III 49 President and Chief Executive Officer of FPL Group June 11, 2001 Chairman of the Board of FPL Group January 1, 2002 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of FPL January 1, 2002 Robert L. McGrath 51 Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Corporate Services of FPL Group February 21, 2005 Senior Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Corporate Services of FPL February 21, 2005 Armando J. Olivera 55 President of FPL June 24, 2003 James L. Robo 42 President of FPL Energy July 26, 2002 Antonio Rodriguez 62 Senior Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPL July 1, 1999 John A. Stall 50 Senior Vice President, Nuclear Division of FPL June 4, 2001 Edward F. Tancer 43 Vice President & General Counsel of FPL Group February 21, 2005 Senior Vice President & General Counsel of FPL February 21, 2005 (a) Executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. Except as noted below, each officer has held his present position for five years or more and his employment history is continuous. The business experience of the executive officers is as follows: Mr. Cutler was assistant treasurer of FPL Group from May 1999 to February 2003. He was assistant treasurer of FPL from May 1997 to February 2003. Mr. Cutler has served as assistant secretary of FPL Group and FPL since December 1997. Mr. Dewhurst was senior partner of Dean & Company, a management consulting and investment firm that he co founded in 1993. Mr. Escoto was vice president, human resources of FPL from March 2004 to February 2005. Mr. Escoto has served as vice president, human resources of FPL Energy since April 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Escoto was director of hum an resources of FPL. Mr. Hay was president of FPL Energy from March 2000 to December 2001. Prior to that, he was vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group and senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL. Mr. McGrath was senior vice president, engineering and construction of FPL from November 2002 to February 2005 and treasurer of FPL Group and FPL from January 2000 to November 2002. He was also vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Energy from June 2000 to November 2002. Prior to that, Mr. McGrath was assistant treasurer of FPL Group and FPL. Mr. Olivera was senior vice president, power systems of FPL from July 1999 to June 2003. Mr. Robo was vice president of corporate development and strategy of FPL Group from March 2002 to July 2002. He was president and chief executive officer of TIP, a GE Capital Company that provides trailer and storage equipment services, and G E Capital Modular Space, a supplier of mobile and modular buildings, from December 1999 to March 2002. Mr. Stall was vice president of nuclear engineering of FPL from January 2000 to June 2001. Mr. Tancer was associate general counsel of FPL Group from April 2003 to February 2005 and vice president and general counsel of FPL Energy from February 2001 to February 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Tancer was senior attorney of FPL. Item 2. Properties FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate for their operations. At December 31, 2004, the electric generating, transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 43%, 13%, 37% and 7%, respectively, of FPLs gross investment in electric utility plant in service. Generating Facilities. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group had the following generating facilities: FPL Facilities Location No. of Units Fuel Net Capability (mw)(a) Nuclear St. Lucie Hutchinson Island, FL 2 Nuclear 1,553 (b) Turkey Point Florida City, FL 2 Nuclear 1,386 Steam turbines Cape Canaveral Cocoa, FL 2 Oil/Gas 801 Cutler Miami, FL 2 Gas 206 Manatee Parrish, FL 2 Oil/Gas 1,591 Martin Indiantown, FL 2 Oil/Gas 1,643 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 4 Oil/Gas 1,201 Riviera Riviera Beach, FL 2 Oil/Gas 556 St. Johns River Power Park Jacksonville, FL 2 Coal/Petroleum Coke 232 (c) Sanford Lake Monroe, FL 1 Oil/Gas 138 Scherer Monroe County, GA 1 Coal 639 (d) Turkey Point Florida City, FL 2 Oil/Gas 798 Combined cycle Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 1 Gas 1,441 Lauderdale Dania, FL 2 Gas/Oil 859 Martin Indiantown, FL 2 Gas 943 Putnam Palatka, FL 2 Gas/Oil 498 Sanford Lake Monroe, FL 2 Gas 1,889 Simple cycle combustion turbines Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 1 Gas/Oil 326 Martin Indiantown, FL 1 Gas/Oil 320 Gas turbines/diesels Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL 12 Oil 648 Lauderdale Dania, FL 24 Oil/Gas 840 Port Everglades Port Everglades, FL 12 Oil/Gas 420 Turkey Point Florida City, FL 5 Oil 12 TOTAL 18,940 (e) (a) Represents FPLs net ownership interest in plant capacity. (b) Excludes Orlando Utilities Commissions and the FMPAs combined share of approximately 15% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2. (c) Represents FPLs 20% ownership interest in each of St. Johns River Power Park Units Nos. 1 and 2, which are jointly owned with JEA. (d) Represents FPLs approximately 76% ownership of Scherer Unit No. 4, which is jointly owned with JEA. (e) Substantially all of FPLs properties are subject to the lien of FPLs mortgage. FPL expects to add 1,906 mw by mid 2005, primarily as a result of the planned mid 2005 addition of natural gas combined cycle generation at the Martin and Manatee sites. FPL Energy Facilities Location No. of Units Fuel Net Capability (mw)(a) Wind Cabazon Riverside County, CA 53 Wind 40 Cerro Gordo (b) Cerro Gordo County, IA 55 Wind 41 Delaware Mountain Culberson County, TX 39 Wind 30 Diablo Wind Alameda County, CA 31 Wind 21 Gray County Gray County, KS 170 Wind 112 Green Mountain Somerset County, PA 8 Wind 10 Green Power Riverside County, CA 22 Wind 17 Hancock County (b) Hancock County, IA 148 Wind 98 High Winds (b) Solano County, CA 90 Wind 162 Indian Mesa Upton County, TX 125 Wind 83 King Mountain Upton County, TX 215 Wind 281 Lake Benton II (b) Pipestone County, MN 138 Wind 104 Meyersdale (c) Somerset County, PA 20 Wind 30 Mill Run Fayette County, PA 10 Wind 15 Montfort (b) Iowa County, WI 20 Wind 30 Mountaineer (c) Preston & Tucker Counties, WV 44 Wind 66 New Mexico (b) Quay & Debaca Counties, NM 136 Wind 204 North Dakota (c) LaMoure County, ND 41 Wind 62 Oklahoma / Sooner (c) Harper & Woodward Counties, OK 68 Wind 102 Sky River Kern County, CA 342 Wind 77 Somerset Wind Power Somerset County, PA 6 Wind 9 South Dakota (c) Hyde County, SD 27 Wind 41 Southwest Mesa (b) Upton & Crockett Counties, TX 107 Wind 75 Stateline (b) Umatilla County, OR and Walla Walla County, WA 454 Wind 300 Vansycle (c) Umatilla County, OR 38 Wind 25 Victory Garden Kern County, CA 96 Wind 22 Waymart (c) Wayne County, PA 43 Wind 65 Windpower Partners 1994 (b) Culberson County, TX 112 Wind 27 Woodward Mountain Upton & Pecos Counties, TX 242 Wind 160 Wyoming (c) Uinta County, WY 80 Wind 144 Investments in joint ventures Various 3,634 (d) 305 Total Wind 2,758 Contracted Bayswater (b) Far Rockaway, NY 1 Gas 54 Calhoun (b) Eastaboga, AL 4 Gas 668 Doswell (b) Ashland, VA 4 Gas/Oil 708 Doswell Expansion (b) Ashland, VA 1 Gas/Oil 171 Jamaica Bay (b) Far Rockaway, NY 1 Oil/Gas 54 Investments in joint ventures Various 12 (e) 515 Total Contracted 2,170 Merchant Blythe Energy Blythe, CA 1 Gas 507 Forney Forney, TX 2 Gas 1,700 Lamar Power Partners Paris, TX 2 Gas 1,000 Maine Various ME 6 Oil 656 (f) Maine Various ME 83 Hydro 361 Marcus Hook 50 Marcus Hook, PA 1 Gas 50 Marcus Hook 750 (b) Marcus Hook, PA 3 Gas 744 RISEP (b) Johnston, RI 1 Gas 550 Seabrook Seabrook, NH 1 Nuclear 1,024 (g) Total Merchant 6,592 TOTAL 11,520 (a) Represents FPL Energys net ownership interest in plant capacity. (b) These consolidated generating facilities are encumbered by liens against their assets securing various financings. (c) In connection with a February 2005 financing, these consolidated generating facilities were encumbered by liens against their assets. See Note 14. (d) Represents plants with no more than 50% ownership using wind technology. (e) Represents plants with no more than 50% ownership using fuels and technologies such as gas, waste to energy, solar, coal and petroleum coke. (f) Excludes 10 other energy related partners combined share of 38.22%. (g) Excludes Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Companys, Taunton Municipal Lighting Plants and Hudson Light & Power Departments combined share of 11.77%. Transmission and Distribution. During 2004, FPL purchased transmission substation assets located in Seabrook, New Hampshire at their net book value of approximately $21 million from a subsidiary of FPL Energy. The substation assets were transferred in order to qualify for cost recovery opportunities in New England that are limited to transmission providers. At December 31, 2004, FPL owned and operated the following electric transmission and distribution lines: Nominal Voltage Overhead Lines Pole Miles Trench and Submarine Cables Miles 500 kv 1,104 (a) 230 kv 2,395 25 138 kv 1,454 49 115 kv 668 69 kv 164 14 Less than 69 kv 41,144 24,166 Total 46,929 24,254 (a) Includes approximately 75 miles owned jointly with JEA. In addition, at December 31, 2004, FPL owned and operated 537 substations, one of which is jointly owned. See Note 8. Character of Ownership. Substantially all of FPLs properties are subject to the lien of FPLs mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by FPL. The majority of FPL Groups principal properties are held by FPL in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions, none of which is of such a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties. Some of FPLs electric lines are located on land not owned in fee but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained from owners of private property. A number of FPL Energys generating facilities are encumbered by liens against their assets securing various financings. See Generating Facilities and Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In November 1999, the Attorney General of the United States, on behalf of the EPA, brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Georgia Power Company and other subsidiaries of The Southern Company for certain alleged violations of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) provisions and the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) of the Clean Air Act. In May 2001, the EPA amended its complaint. The amended complaint alleges, among other things, that Georgia Power Company constructed and is continuing to operate Scherer Unit No. 4, in which FPL owns a 76% interest, without obtaining a PSD permit, without complying with NSPS requirements, and without applying best available control technology for nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides and particulate matter as required by the Clean Air Act. It also alleges that unspecified major modifications have been made at Scherer Unit No. 4 that require its com pliance with the aforementioned Clean Air Act provisions. The EPA seeks injunctive relief requiring the installation of best available control technology and civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each violation from an unspecified date after June 1, 1975 through January 30, 1997 and $27,500 per day for each violation thereafter. The EPA further revised its civil penalty rule in February 2004, such that the maximum penalty is $32,500 per day for each violation after March 15, 2004. Georgia Power Company has answered the amended complaint, asserting that it has complied with all requirements of the Clean Air Act, denying the plaintiffs allegations of liability, denying that the plaintiff is entitled to any of the relief that it seeks and raising various other defenses. In June 2001, the federal district court stayed discovery and administratively closed the case pending resolution of the EPAs motion for consolidation of discovery in several Clean Air Act cas es that was filed with a Multi District Litigation (MDL) panel. In August 2001, the MDL panel denied the motion for consolidation. In September 2001, the EPA moved that the federal district court reopen this case for purposes of discovery. Georgia Power Company opposed that motion asking that the case remain closed until the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals ruled on the Tennessee Valley Authoritys (TVA) appeal of an EPA administrative compliance order relating to legal issues that are also central to this case. In August 2002, the federal district court denied without prejudice the EPAs motion to reopen. In June 2003, the Eleventh Circuit issued its order dismissing the TVAs appeal because it found the provision of the Clean Air Act allowing the EPA to issue binding administrative compliance orders was unconstitutional, and hence found that the TVA order was a non final order that courts of appeal do not have jurisdiction to review. In Sep tember 2003, the Eleventh Circuit denied the EPAs motion for rehearing. In May 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the EPAs petition for review of the Eleventh Circuit order. The EPA has not yet moved to reopen the Georgia Power Company case. In November 2001, J. W. and Ernestine M. Thomas, Chester and Marie Jenkins (since substituted for by Hazel and Lamar Jenkins), and Ray Norman and Jack Teague, as Co Personal Representatives on behalf of the Estate of Robert L. Johns, served FPL Group, FPL, FPL FiberNet, FPL Group Capital and FPL Investments, Inc. (FPL Investments) as defendants in a civil action filed in the Circuit Court for Suwanee County, Florida. This action is purportedly on behalf of all property owners in Florida (excluding railroad and public rights of way) whose property is encumbered by easements in favor of FPL, and on whose property defendants have installed or intend to install fiber optic cable which defendants currently lease, license or convey or intend to lease, license or convey for non electric transmission or distribution purposes. The lawsuit alleges that FPLs easements do not permit the installation and use of fiber optic cable for general communication purposes.&n bsp; The plaintiffs have asserted claims for unlawful detainer, unjust enrichment and constructive trust and seek injunctive relief and compensatory damages. In May 2002, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, adding allegations regarding the installation of wireless communications equipment on some easements, and adding a claim for declaratory relief. Defendants filed an answer and affirmative defenses to the amended complaint in August 2002. Motions for summary judgment by FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and FPL Investments have been granted, and they have been dismissed from this lawsuit. In February 2004, the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file their third amended complaint adding four more plaintiffs and seeking leave to add a claim for punitive damages. The court has not set a time for a hearing on this motion or on whether this case will proceed as a class action. In August 2001, FMPA filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (DC Circuit) a petition for review asking the DC Circuit to reverse and remand orders of the FERC denying FMPAs request for credits for transmission facilities owned by FMPA members. The transmission credits sought by FMPA would offset the transmission charges that FPL bills FMPA for network transmission service to FMPAs member cities. FMPA member cities have been taking network transmission service under FPLs open access transmission tariff since 1996. In the orders appealed by FMPA, FERC ruled that FMPA would be entitled to credits for any FMPA facilities that were "integrated" with the FPL transmission system. Based on the evidence submitted, FERC concluded that none of the FMPA facilities met the integration test and, therefore, FMPA was not entitled to credits against FPLs charges for transmission service. In January 2003, the DC Circuit upheld FERCs order denying FMPA credits for its facilities; in March 2003, the DC Circuit denied FMPAs rehearing request of the DC Circuits decision; and in October 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court denied FMPAs petition for review of the DC Circuits decision. FMPA also has requested that FERC decide the same crediting issue in a separate FERC proceeding. That proceeding dates back to a filing by FPL in 1993 of a comprehensive restructuring of its then existing tariff structure. All issues in that case were settled in September 2000 except for three issues reserved by FMPA: (i) the crediting issue, (ii) treatment of behind the meter generation and load ratio pricing for network integration transmission service, and (iii) exclusions from FPLs transmission rates of the costs of FPLs facilities that failed to meet the same integration test that was applied to FMPAs facilities with respect to the crediting issue. In December 2003, FERC issued an order addressing the three reserved issues. With respect to the crediting issue, FERC stated that it had previously determined that FMPA was not entitled to credits for its facilities in the related proceeding discussed above and saw no persuasive reason to revisit that determination in this proceeding. Regarding the issue of behind the meter generation, FERC stated that it had addressed the issue of load ratio pricing for network integration transmission service and the related issue of behind the meter generation in Order Nos. 888 and 888 A, and saw no persuasive reason to revisit that determination in this proceeding. With respect to the third issue, FERC directed FPL to make a compliance filing of a proposed rate schedule that does not include those facilities of FPL that fail to meet the same integration test applied to the FMPA facilities. In January 2004, FMPA requested a "conditional rehearing on the Commissions failure to order rate credits solely in the event that Commission does not adequately reduce FPLs rate base to achieve comparability," and challenging FERCs determination not to revisit the issue of behind the meter generation and load ratio pricing for network integration transmission service. In March 2004, FERC issued an order denying FMPAs rehearing request. In April 2004, FMPA petitioned the DC Circuit for review of FERCs December 2003 order and March 2004 order. FMPA filed its initial brief in that proceeding on October 1, 2004. FMPAs arguments are limited to the issue of behind the meter generation and load ratio pricing for network integration transmission service in instances when, according to FMPA, FPL cannot provide transmission service because of "physical transmission limitations." FERCs r eply brief was filed on December 1, 2004. FPL has been granted party status as an intervenor, and its brief was filed on December 16, 2004. FMPAs reply brief to the FERC was filed on January 13, 2005. Oral argument is scheduled for March 22, 2005. FPL estimates its exposure for refunds to FMPA on this issue to be approximately $2 million at December 31, 2004. In May 2004, FPL made a compliance filing of a proposed rate schedule that does not include those facilities of FPL that fail to meet the same integration test that was applied to the FMPA facilities. Pursuant to this filing, 1.63% of FPLs transmission facilities do not satisfy the integration standard and FPLs current network transmission rate would be reduced by $0.02 per kilowatt (kw) per month, resulting in a refund obligation to FMPA of approximately $1 million at December 31, 2004. In June 2004, FMPA filed a protest to FPLs compliance filing, which protest would exclude approximately 30% of FPLs transmission facilities and reduce FPLs current network transmission rate by approximately $0.41 per kw per month, potentially resulting in a refund obligation to FMPA of approximately $26 million at December 31, 2004. Any reduction in FPLs network service rate would also apply effective January 1, 2004 to Seminole Electric Cooperative Inc. (Seminole), FPLs other network customer. The refund obligation to Seminole at December 31, 2004 would be approximately $0.2 million under FPLs filing and approximately $4 million based on FMPAs position. On January 25, 2005, FERC issued an order on FPLs compliance filing. In the order FERC accepted FPLs standards for analyzing the transmission system and agreed that FPLs "Georgia Ties" and "Turkey Point Lines" are part of FPLs integrated grid. FERC required FPL to make an additional compliance filing removing the cost of all radial transmission lines from transmission rates, rather than only radial lines that serve one customer, analyzing the FPL transmission system to remove the cost of any transmission facilities that provide only "unneeded redundancy," and calculating rate adjustments using 1993 data rather than 1998 data. FPLs further compliance filing is due on April 25, 2005. In 1995 and 1996, FPL Group, through an indirect subsidiary, purchased from Adelphia 1,091,524 shares of Adelphia common stock and 20,000 shares of Adelphia preferred stock (convertible into 2,358,490 shares of Adelphia common stock) for an aggregate price of approximately $35,900,000. On January 29, 1999, Adelphia repurchased all of these shares for $149,213,130 in cash. On June 24, 2004, Adelphia, Adelphia Cablevision, L.L.C. and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Adelphia filed a complaint against FPL Group and its indirect subsidiary in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that the repurchase of these shares by Adelphia was a fraudulent transfer, in that at the time of the transaction Adelphia (i) was insolvent or was rendered insolvent, (ii) did not receive reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the cash it paid, and (iii) was engaged or about to engage in a business or transac tion for which any property remaining with Adelphia had unreasonably small capital. The complaint seeks the recovery for the benefit of Adelphias bankruptcy estate of the cash paid for the repurchased shares, plus interest. FPL Group believes that the complaint is invalid because, among other reasons, Adelphia will be unable to demonstrate that (i) Adelphias repurchase of shares from FPL Group, which repurchase was at the market value for those shares, was not for reasonably equivalent value, (ii) Adelphia was insolvent at the time of the repurchase, or (iii) the repurchase left Adelphia with unreasonably small capital. In February 2003, Scott and Rebecca Finestone brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son Zachary Finestone in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida alleging that their son has developed cancer (neuroblastoma) as a result of the release and or dissipation into the air, water, soil and underground areas of radioactive and non radioactive hazardous materials, including strontium 90, and the release of other toxic materials from FPLs St. Lucie nuclear power plant. The complaint includes counts against FPL for strict liability for allegedly engaging in an ultra hazardous activity and for alleged negligence in operating the plant in a manner that allowed emissions of the foregoing materials and failing to limit its release of nuclear fission products as prescribed by federal and state laws and regulations. The plaintiffs seek damages in excess of $1 million. After initially denying FPLs motion to dismiss, th e court granted it with respect to plaintiffs count for strict liability. The court has also granted FPLs motion for a ruling that the only duty owed by FPL to the plaintiffs is established exclusively by federal regulations and not general negligence standards. The plaintiffs subsequently filed an amended complaint on the same factual grounds, including a count against FPL for strict liability, which appears identical in all material elements to the strict liability claim in plaintiffs initial complaint, and counts against FPL for alleged negligence based on duties allegedly established by federal and state laws and regulations. FPL again moved to dismiss the strict liability claim and moved to dismiss all negligence claims that are not based on the duty that the court has recognized governs this action. The court granted FPLs motion. FPL has answered the one count in the amended complaint that is based on that duty, denying any liability. &nbs p;Plaintiffs also moved to vacate or modify the courts order establishing the duty owed. The court denied plaintiffs motion. Discovery is proceeding. In May 2003, Tish Blake and John Lowe, as personal representatives of the Estate of Ashton Lowe, on behalf of the estate and themselves, as surviving parents, brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida alleging that their son developed cancer (medulo blastoma) as a result of the release and or dissipation into the air, water, soil and underground areas of radioactive and non radioactive hazardous materials, including strontium 90, and the release of other toxic materials from FPLs St. Lucie nuclear power plant. The allegations, counts and damages demanded in the complaint are virtually identical to those contained in the Finestone lawsuit described above. As in the Finestone case, the court has granted FPLs motion to dismiss the plaintiffs count for strict liability. Similarly, the court has also granted FPLs motion for a ruling that the only duty owed by FPL to the plaintiffs is established exclusive ly by federal regulations and not general negligence standards. The plaintiffs subsequently filed an amended complaint on the same factual grounds, including a count against FPL for strict liability, which appears identical in all material elements to the strict liability claim in plaintiffs initial complaint, and counts against FPL for alleged negligence based on duties allegedly established by federal and state laws and regulations. FPL again moved to dismiss the strict liability claim and moved to dismiss all negligence claims that are not based on the duty that the court has recognized governs this action. The court granted FPLs motion. FPL has answered the one count in the amended complaint that is based on that duty, denying any liability. Plaintiffs also moved to vacate or modify the courts order establishing the duty owed. The court denied plaintiffs motion. Discovery is proceeding. In June 2003, Monty and Kathryn Wooldridge brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son, Kevin Allen Wooldridge, in the Circuit Court of the 9th Judicial Circuit in and for Orange County, Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies, the American Dental Association, the Florida Dental Association, FPL and the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC), alleging that their son has suffered toxic neurological effects from mercury poisoning. The sources of mercury exposure are alleged to be vaccines containing a preservative called thimerosal that were allegedly manufactured and distributed by the drug companies, mercury amalgam dental fillings, and emissions from FPL and OUC power plants in Florida, including Brevard County. The complaint includes counts against all defendants for civil battery and against FPL for alleged negligence in operating the plants such that the son was exposed to mercury and other heavy metals emissions. The damages demanded from FPL are for injuries and losses allegedly suffered by the son as a result of his exposure to the plants mercury emissions and the parents alleged pain and suffering, medical expenses, loss of wages, and loss of their sons services and companionship. No amount of damages is specified. The court has granted the drug manufacturing and distribution companies and the dental associations motions to dismiss the complaint against them. The plaintiffs are appealing those orders. FPLs motion to dismiss is pending. In August 2003, Pedro C. and Emilia Roig brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son, Pedro Anthony Roig, in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Circuit in and for Miami Dade County, Florida (the state court), which was removed in October 2003 to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies and FPL, alleging that their son has suffered toxic neurological effects from mercury poisoning. The allegations, counts and damages demanded in the complaint with respect to FPL are virtually identical to those contained in the Wooldridge lawsuit described above. The U.S. District Court remanded the action back to the state court. All parties anticipate that the drug manufacturing and distribution companies will move to dismiss the action. Plaintiffs and FPL have agreed that FPL will not respond to the complaint until the state court rules on those motions. In December 2003, Edward and Janis Shiflett brought an action on behalf of themselves and their son, Phillip Benjamin Shiflett, in the Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit in and for Brevard County, Florida (the state court), which was removed in January 2004 to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies, FPL and the OUC, alleging that their son has suffered toxic neurological effects from mercury poisoning. The allegations, counts and damages demanded in the complaint with respect to FPL are virtually identical to those contained in the Wooldridge and Roig lawsuits. FPLs motion to dismiss the complaint was denied. The U.S. District Court subsequently remanded the action back to the state court. All parties anticipate that the drug manufacturing and distribution companies will move to dismi ss the action. Plaintiffs and FPL have agreed that FPL will not respond to the complaint until the state court rules on those motions. In February 2004, Albert Litter Studios, Inc. instituted an action against FPL in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Circuit in and for Miami Dade County, Florida, seeking damages on behalf of itself, and purportedly on behalf of all other similarly situated commercial entities in Florida. The plaintiff asserts that FPLs intentional use of allegedly defective thermal demand meters has resulted in overcharging it and certain other commercial customers millions of dollars and constitutes breach of an implied contract, breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing, negligence, fraudulent inducement, and negligent misrepresentation. The complaint seeks damages in excess of $15,000, representing the amount of the alleged overcharges, interest, and such other relief as the court may order. FPL moved to dismiss the case on the grounds that the FPSC has exclusive jurisdiction over this type of complaint. The court denied the motion on July 13, 2004. FPL appealed the ruling to Floridas Third District Court of Appeals (Third DCA). FPLs motion to stay the proceedings pending resolution of the appeal was denied by the trial court. FPL filed a separate motion to stay pending appeal with the Third DCA, and the court granted that motion on November 10, 2004. Oral argument on the appeal of the jurisdictional question was heard on December 14, 2004. The parties are currently awaiting a decision on the appeal of the jurisdictional question; the Third DCAs stay of the trial court proceedings remains in effect pending that decision. FPL determined in 2002 that, based on sample testing of the approximately 3,900 1V thermal demand meters in service, the demand component of its 1V meter population was exceeding allowable tolerance levels established by FPSC rules. In 2002, FPL proposed to replace and test all of the 1V meters in service and to issue refunds, as appropriate, within certain parameters. FPL was given administrative approval from the FPSC staff to proceed with the replacement of the 1V meters. By early 2003, all 1V meters had been replaced. Testing of all 1V meters disclosed that approximately 15% of the 3,900 meters were outside of allowed tolerances, with 10% under registering and 5% over registering electricity usage. In November 2003, the FPSC, as proposed agency action, approved a method for testing the meters and calculating refunds. On December 10, 2003, Southeastern Utility Services, Inc., on behalf of several commercial customers, filed a protest to the proposed agency action and requested a hearing. Southeastern Utility Services, Inc. alleges that, among other things, the proposed method for computing the amount of the refund is flawed. A final hearing before the FPSC occurred on November 4, 2004. Final briefs were filed by the parties on December 16, 2004. At its February 1, 2005 agenda meeting, the FPSC concluded that no refunds were due relative to the 11 meters in question for any period in excess of 12 months. Southeastern Utility Services, Inc. had argued for multi year refunds. Based on the FPSCs decision, FPL expects that aggregate refunds to these complainants will not exceed $50,000. The parties expect a final FPSC order by March 2005. On October 6, 2004, TXU Portfolio Management Company (TXU) served FPL Energy Pecos Wind I, LP, FPL Energy Pecos Wind I GP, LLC, FPL Energy Pecos Wind II, LP, FPL Energy Pecos Wind II GP, LLC and Indian Mesa Wind Farm, LP (FPL Energy Affiliates) as defendants in a civil action filed in the District Court in Dallas County, Texas. The petition alleges that the named FPL Energy Affiliates had a contractual obligation to produce and sell to TXU a minimum quantity of energy each year and that the FPL Energy Affiliates failed to meet this obligation. The plaintiff has asserted claims for breach of contract and declaratory judgment and seeks damages of $20,826,100. The FPL Energy Affiliates filed their answer and counterclaim in November of 2004, denying the allegations. The counterclaim asserts claims for conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract and fraud and seeks termination of the contract and damages. The cas e is in discovery and has been set for a non jury trial in August of 2005. In the event that FPL Group and FPL do not prevail in these lawsuits, there may be a material adverse effect on their financial statements. However, FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the pending litigation discussed above and are vigorously defending the lawsuits. Management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any, arising from the proceedings would have a material adverse effect on the financial statements. In addition to those legal proceedings discussed herein, FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are involved in a number of other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of their businesses. In addition, generating plants in which FPL Group or FPL have an ownership interest are involved in legal proceedings and claims, the liabilities from which, if any, would be shared by FPL Group or FPL. While management is unable to predict with certainty the outcome of these other legal proceedings and claims, it is not expected that their ultimate resolution, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the financial statements. In June 2004, a subsidiary of FPL Energy, FPLE Rhode Island State Energy, L.P. (RISEP), received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (RIDEM). The NOV alleged that the RISEP facility exceeded certain permit limitations relating to the reuse water received from the City of Cranston during certain days from November 2002 until May 2003 and that RIDEM was not notified of such exceedances in a timely manner. The total proposed penalty for these combined allegations was $383,700. In April 2003, the facility self disclosed the permit exceedances at issue and since that date has undertaken significant changes to its management, water treatment system, and the wastewater treatment system for the City of Cranston, which has been providing poor quality reuse water. In addition, there were several meetings with RIDEM regarding the status of remedial measures and the facility maintained regula r contact regarding plant operational status. On December 28, 2004, RISEP agreed to pay a penalty of $95,000 to RIDEM to settle the NOV. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Data. All of FPLs common stock is owned by FPL Group. FPL Groups common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter during the past two years are as follows: 2004 2003 Quarter High Low High Low First $ 68.81 $ 63.34 $ 63.77 $ 53.55 Second $ 67.25 $ 60.20 $ 68.08 $ 57.74 Third $ 69.85 $ 62.41 $ 67.66 $ 60.01 Fourth $ 76.10 $ 67.33 $ 65.98 $ 62.65 Approximate Number of Stockholders. As of the close of business on January 31, 2005, there were 32,981 holders of record of FPL Groups common stock. Dividends. Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of FPL Group during the past two years in the following amounts per share: Quarter 2004 2003 First $ 0.62 $ 0.60 Second $ 0.62 $ 0.60 Third $ 0.68 $ 0.60 Fourth $ 0.68 $ 0.60 The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Groups common stock are within the sole discretion of FPL Groups board of directors. The board of directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of FPL Groups financial position and results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions and any other factors the board deems relevant. The ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. There are no restrictions in effect that currently limit FPLs ability to pay dividends to FPL Group. In February 2005, FPL Group announced that it would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.68 to $0.71 per share before giving effect to a two for one stock spli t effective March 15, 2005 (2005 stock split). See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources with respect to dividend restrictions and Note 12 Common Stock Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group. See Managements Discussion Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 12 Earnings Per Share regarding the 2005 stock split. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. FPL Group, Inc. Purchases of Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (a) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of a Publicly Announced Program Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Program (b) (thousands) 10/1/04 10/31/04 7,867 $ 67.59 5,402 11/1/04 11/30/04 $ 5,402 12/1/04 12/31/04 $ 5,402 Total 7,867 $ 67.59 (a) Represents shares of common stock purchased by FPL Group from employees to pay taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock granted to employees. (b) In February 1997, FPL Groups board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of common stock over an unspecified period as part of a publicly announced program. In February 2005, FPL Groups board of directors terminated the February 1997 common stock repurchase plan and authorized a new common stock repurchase plan of up to 10 million shares of common stock (20 million shares after giving effect to the 2005 stock split) over an unspecified period. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 SELECTED DATA OF FPL GROUP (millions, except per share amounts): Operating revenues $ 10,522 $ 9,630 $ 8,173 $ 8,217 $ 6,920 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 887 (a) $ 893 (a) $ 695 (b) $ 781 (c) $ 704 (d) Cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, net of income taxes of $143 $ $ $ (222 ) $ $ Cumulative effect of adopting FIN 46, net of income taxes of $2 $ $ (3 ) $ $ $ Net income $ 887 (a) $ 890 (e) $ 473 (f) $ 781 (c) $ 704 (d) Earnings per share of common stock: (g) Earnings per share before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 4.95 (a) $ 5.03 (a) $ 4.02 (b) $ 4.63 (c) $ 4.14 (d) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ $ (0.02 ) $ (1.28 ) $ $ Earnings per share $ 4.95 (a) $ 5.01 (e) $ 2.74 (f) $ 4.63 (c) $ 4.14 (d) Earnings per share of common stock assuming dilution: (g) Earnings per share before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 4.91 (a) $ 5.02 (a) $ 4.01 (b) $ 4.62 (c) $ 4.14 (d) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ $ (0.02 ) $ (1.28 ) $ $ Earnings per share $ 4.91 (a) $ 5.00 (e) $ 2.73 (f) $ 4.62 (c) $ 4.14 (d) Dividends paid per share of common stock (g) $ 2.60 $ 2.40 $ 2.32 $ 2.24 $ 2.16 Total assets (h)(i) $ 28,333 $ 26,935 $ 23,185 $ 20,713 $ 18,355 Long term debt, excluding current maturities (h) $ 8,027 $ 8,723 $ 5,790 $ 4,858 $ 3,976 Obligations of FPL under capital lease, excluding current maturities (h) $ $ $ 140 $ 133 $ 127 SELECTED DATA OF FPL (millions): Operating revenues $ 8,734 $ 8,293 $ 7,378 $ 7,477 $ 6,361 Net income available to FPL Group $ 749 $ 733 $ 717 $ 679 (d) $ 607 (d) Total assets (h) $ 19,114 $ 17,817 $ 16,032 $ 15,174 $ 15,075 Long term debt, excluding current maturities (h) $ 2,813 $ 3,074 $ 2,364 $ 2,579 $ 2,577 Energy sales (kwh) 103,635 103,202 98,605 93,488 91,969 Energy sales: Residential 50.7 % 51.8 % 51.6 % 50.9 % 50.4 % Commercial 40.6 40.1 40.6 40.6 40.2 Industrial 3.8 3.9 4.1 4.4 4.1 Interchange power sales 2.9 2.3 1.8 2.2 3.1 Other (j) 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.9 2.2 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Approximate 60 minute peak load (mw): (k) Summer season 20,545 19,668 19,219 18,754 17,808 Winter season 18,108 15,989 20,190 17,585 18,219 Average number of customer accounts (thousands): Residential 3,745 3,653 3,566 3,491 3,414 Commercial 458 445 435 427 415 Industrial 19 17 16 15 16 Other 3 2 3 2 3 Total 4,225 4,117 4,020 3,935 3,848 Average price per kwh (cents) (l) 8.36 7.95 7.32 8.05 6.86 (a) Includes net unrealized mark to market gains or losses associated with non qualifying hedges. (b) Includes impairment and restructuring charges, charges related to certain wind projects and leveraged leases, a favorable settlement of litigation with the IRS and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non qualifying hedges. (c) Includes merger related expenses and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non qualifying hedges. (d) Includes merger related expenses. (e) Includes the cumulative effect of an accounting change and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non qualifying hedges. (f) Includes the cumulative effect of an accounting change, impairment and restructuring charges, charges related to certain wind projects and leveraged leases, a favorable settlement of litigation with the IRS and net unrealized mark to market gains associated with non qualifying hedges. (g) The per share information does not reflect the effect of the 2005 stock split. See Note 12 Earnings Per Share. (h) Reflects the adoption of FIN 46 in July 2003. See Note 9. (i) Reflects the adoption of FAS 142 in January 2002. See Note 5. (j) Includes the net change in unbilled sales. (k) Winter season includes November and December of the current year and January to March of the following year. (l) Excludes interchange power sales, net change in unbilled revenues, deferrals/recoveries under cost recovery clauses and a provision, if any, for retail rate refund. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Overview FPL Group is one of the nations largest providers of electricity related services. Its principal subsidiary, FPL, serves more than eight million people along the eastern seaboard and southern portion of Florida. FPL Energy, FPL Groups wholesale energy subsidiary, produces electricity primarily utilizing natural gas, wind and nuclear resources. Together, FPLs and FPL Energys generating assets represent approximately 30,000 mw of capacity. FPL FiberNet provides fiber optic services to FPL, telecommunications companies and other customers throughout Florida. FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the retail sale of electricity. Over the last 10 years, FPLs customer growth has been 2.1% while underlying usage growth has been 0.8%. FPL is meeting the increased demands of its customers by adding to its generation capacity and electric transmission and distribution infrastructure. FPL plans to add about 1,900 mw of generating capacity in 2005 at a total investment of over $1 billion. This will provide enough power to meet the needs of approximately 400,000 new customers and FPL expects a reserve margin of 25% for all of its customers. These projects are utilizing natural gas fired and combined cycle generators. FPLs O&M expenses declined in 2004 despite increased costs of nuclear plant maintenance and insurance; however, O&M expenses are expected to increase in 2005 reflecting continued upward trends in nuclear maintenance, insurance and employee r elated costs as well as increased maintenance costs for fossil generation plants due to a number of FPLs older units going through major overhauls. FPLs O&M expenses per retail kilowatt hour also declined in 2004 and are below the 2003 industry average according to the most current reference data available from government sources. In 2004, FPLs availability factor for its fossil and nuclear generating units were 94% and 88%, respectively, and the average minutes a customer was without power was 69 minutes, excluding the impact of the three hurricances that hit FPLs service territory, compared to the 2003 industry average of 137 minutes. Growing demand for electricity in FPLs service territory has prompted the need for additional power plants and other capital improvements, the costs of which have resulted in FPL notifying the FPSC on January 21, 2005 of its intent to file for a rate increase effective January 2006. FPLs business strategy is to meet the in creased demands of customer growth and focus on improving operating performance. FPL Energy is in the wholesale generation business with the majority of its operating revenues derived from wholesale electricity sales. Its market is diversified by region as well as by fuel source. More than 85% of the expected 2005 gross margin from FPL Energys wholesale generation fleet is hedged against fuel and electricity market volatility. FPL Energys trading business is focused on reducing risk and extracting maximum value from its assets. FPL Energy is one of the largest producers of wind energy in the world, and with the extension of the production tax credit program through December 2005, plans to continue expanding its wind portfolio in 2005 through construction of new facilities and selective acquisitions. FPL Energys business strategy is to maximize the value of its current portfolio, expand its U.S. market leading wind position, build its portfolio and explore gas infrastructure opportunities. Results of Operations Summary FPL Groups net income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $887 million, $890 million and $473 million, respectively. See Note 17 for segment information. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects reduced earnings at FPL Energy partially offset by improved results at FPL. At Corporate and Other, the impact of the favorable resolution of certain tax issues was partially offset by higher interest expense. FPLs 2004 results improved as a result of strong customer growth and the settlement of shareholder litigation initiated in 2002 and 2003, but were partially offset by the impacts of three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory during the third quarter of 2004, as well as lower customer usage due to overall milder weather. These hurricanes resulted in lost revenues and an increase in O&M expenses including higher reserves for uncollectible ac counts for FPL, and reduced FPLs net income by approximately $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. FPL Energys 2004 results decreased due to the effect of restructuring activities during 2004 compared to 2003 and higher interest expense partially offset by increased earnings from its existing portfolio as well as project additions. In addition, FPL Energys net income for 2004 reflects unrealized losses from non qualifying hedges of $3 million while 2003 net income reflects unrealized gains of $22 million and a $3 million charge due to a change in accounting principle. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 benefited from improved results at both FPL and FPL Energy, as well as the absence of certain impairment and other charges recorded in 2002 that reduced FPL Energys 2002 net income by $295 million ($485 million pretax). In addition, 2003 results at the Corporate and Other segment benefited from the absence of certain impairmen t and other charges, net of income tax settlements, recorded in 2002 which reduced 2002 results by $64 million ($152 million pretax). In addition, FPL Energys net income for 2003 reflects unrealized gains from non qualifying hedges of $22 million compared to $1 million in 2002. FPL Groups 2004 net income also benefited from certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States, as well as the resolution of other tax issues. FPL Groups effective tax rate for all periods presented reflect production tax credits for wind projects at FPL Energy. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2002 was further reduced by a gain from the resolution of an income tax matter. FPL Group and its subsidiaries segregate unrealized mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions into two categories. The first category, referred to as trading and managed hedge activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The second category, referred to as non qualifying hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges (but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended) and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. These transactions have been entered into to reduce FPL Groups aggregate risk. FPL Groups management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings), which in 2004 were the mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges, internally for financial planning, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and for FPL Groups employee incentive compensation plan. FPL Group also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. FPL Groups management believes adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the companys fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded items are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, both the size and nature of such items can make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. FPL FPLs net income available to FPL Group for 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $749 million, $733 million and $717 million, respectively. During 2004, FPLs net income benefited from strong customer growth, underlying customer usage growth, FPLs portion of the amount received by FPL Group related to the settlement of shareholder litigation which reduced O&M expenses and other reductions in O&M expenses. In addition, the allowance for funds used during construction, primarily equity funds, increased during 2004 reflecting higher plant balances under construction. However, the effect of milder weather as compared to 2003, the impact of three hurricanes and higher depreciation expense partially offset these benefits. The hurricanes resulted in lost revenues of approximately $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and have made 2005 results at FPL more difficult to estimate due to the uncertainty of the impact of the storms on revenue growth. & nbsp;During 2003, FPLs net income benefited from higher revenues from retail base operations partially offset by higher O&M expenses, depreciation expense and property taxes. FPLs 2003 net income also reflects a loss related to the redemption of preferred stock, which was substantially offset by tax benefits related to the favorable settlement of tax audit issues with the IRS. In 2002, the FPSC approved a rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The agreement includes a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002(a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund was limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the rate agreement, FPL does not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL continues to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. In addition, depreciation rates will not be changed during the term of the agreement; however, FPL will reduce its recorded depreciation expense by $125 million annually. Accordingly, depreciation expense for all periods presented reflects this reduction. See Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. On January 21, 2005, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate proceeding in March 2005. Although FPL has not finalized its 2006 and 2007 revenue requirements, it expects to request a $400 million to $450 million annual increase in base rates beginning on January 1, 2006 and an additional annual base rate increase of approximately $130 million in mid 2007 to cover the costs associated with the 1,150 mw natural gas fired unit at Turkey Point expected to be placed in service in mid 2007. Hearings on the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2005 and a final decision is expected by the end of 2005. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Retail base operations $ 3,664 $ 3,680 $ 3,603 Revenue refund provision (3 ) (34 ) Cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs 4,999 4,558 3,793 Other, primarily gas and wholesale sales 71 58 16 Total $ 8,734 $ 8,293 $ 7,378 For the year ended December 31, 2004, the decrease in retail base revenues was primarily due to a decrease in usage per retail customer, partially offset by a 2.6% increase in the average number of customer accounts. A 2.7% decrease in usage per retail customer resulted in a decrease in revenues from retail base operations of approximately $100 million, primarily due to milder weather and customer service interruptions during the three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory. The increase in the average number of customer accounts, as well as other factors, increased revenues from retail base operations by $84 million. The increase in retail base revenues in 2003 was primarily due to an increase in customer accounts and an increase in usage per retail customer. The increase in 2003 was partially offset by the effect of the 7% base rate reduction, or $62 million, pursuant to the rate agreement that was effective in mid April 2002. A 2.4% increase in the number of retail customer accounts increased revenues by $85 million, while the balance of the increase, or $54 million, was primarily due to a 1.7% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. Revenues from cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs, such as franchise fees and revenue taxes, do not significantly affect net income; however, under or over recovery of such costs can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in these revenues, as well as in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. Effective January 1, 2003, the FPSC approved a risk management fuel procurement program, which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPLs fuel requirements. The results of the program are reviewed by the FPSC as part of the annual review of fuel costs. The increase i n revenues from cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 reflect higher fuel charges to customers primarily to recover previously underrecovered fuel related costs resulting from higher than projected fuel costs. FPLs O&M expenses decreased $22 million in 2004 reflecting the receipt of approximately $21 million associated with the settlement of the shareholder litigation. The settlement was offset by higher nuclear maintenance costs of $10 million, higher insurance costs of $8 million and an increase in the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable of $8 million in connection with the hurricanes. The remainder of the fluctuation in the 2004 O&M expenses was primarily due to the absence of certain legal expenses recorded in 2003. Management expects to see a continued upward trend in nuclear maintenance, insurance and employee related costs for 2005, as well as an increase in maintenance costs for fossil generation plants as major overhauls are planned for a number of older units. In conjunction with an NRC order, FPL has performed visual and volumetric inspections of its nuclear units reactor vessel heads during their scheduled refueling outages since October 2002. The inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 revealed CRDM nozzles with cracks, which were repaired during the outages. During the fall of 2004, FPL replaced the reactor vessel head at Turkey Point Unit No. 3. FPL anticipates replacing the reactor vessel heads at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 and St. Lucie Unit No. 1 during their next scheduled refueling outage. In January 2005, FPL received permission from the NRC to plug up to 30% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generator tubes. To date, 18.9% of these tubes have been plugged. It is possible that during St. Lucie No. 2s next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2006 the 30% tube plugging limit could be exceeded. Management is currently evaluating various options, including sleeving degraded tubes, to stay within the tube plugging limit. FPL has requested NRC approval to sleeve degraded tubes as an alternative to plugging. Management intends to replace the reactor vessel head and steam generators at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. The replacement cost of the reactor vessel heads and steam generators is expected to be $558 million and is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. The cost of performing inspections and any necessary repairs until the reactor vessel heads are replaced is being recognized as expense on a levelized basis over a five year period beginning in 2002, as authorized by the FPSC, and amounted to approximately $11 million in 2004, $13 million in 2003 and $13 million in 2002. Pursuant to a 2003 NRC bulletin, FPL has performed inspections of the bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations at both of its Turkey Point units and to date, no evidence of leakage from these penetrations has been noted. St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 do not have bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations. In conjunction with a 2004 NRC bulletin, FPL must perform inspections of all alloy 600 and weld materials in pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. To date, no leaks have been identified based on inspections at St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2. Due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, FPL has decided to replace St. Lucie Unit No. 1s pressurizer during its next scheduled refueling and reactor vessel head replacement outage. The estimated cost for the pressurizer is included in estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. FPL has decided to repair St. Lucie Unit No. 2s pressurizer heater sleeve penetrations during its scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007. The estimated cost of this repair is approximately $12 million, which will be charged to O&M expense. All pressurizer penetrations and welds at Tur key Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. See Item 1 FPL Operations Nuclear Operations for further discussion of the above nuclear plant related matters. In 2003, O&M expenses reflected increases in nuclear maintenance expenses discussed above of $29 million, employee benefit costs, primarily medical related, of $17 million and property and liability insurance costs of $17 million due to higher insurance premiums combined with lower refunds under nuclear insurance policies. The 2003 cost increases were partially offset by the absence of a one time storm fund accrual of $35 million recorded in 2002, as well as productivity improvements in other areas. For the year ended December 31, 2004, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $17 million, reflecting continued growth of electric utility plant in service. Depreciation expense will continue to grow as FPL continues to invest in generation and distribution expansion to support customer growth and demand. The latter half of 2005 will see the introduction of approximately 1,900 mw of natural gas combined cycle generation at its Martin and Manatee sites. Also, FPL plans to build a 1,150 mw natural gas fired plant with a planned in service date of mid 2007 as discussed below. Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2003 by $67 million primarily due to FPLs investment in generation and distribution expansion to support customer growth and demand which included the completion of the Fort Myers and Sanford repowering projects. FPL has received 20 year operating license extensions for its four nuclear units. The original license expiration dates for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 are 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2023, respectively. FPL has not yet decided to operate past the original license expiration dates, although FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. The decision will be made for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 by 2007 and for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 by 2011. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. Interest charges for 2004 increased primarily due to an increase of 40 basis points in average interest rates as compared to 2003, higher average debt balances used to fund increased investment in generation, transmission and distribution expansion and to pay for storm restoration costs. Interest charges for 2003 increased primarily due to higher average debt balances used to fund increased investment in generation, transmission and distribution expansion and under recovery of fuel costs. This increase was partially offset by a decline in average interest rates of approximately 80 basis points in 2003 as compared to 2002. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2004, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the mark et based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed that transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Within the last few years, these state restructuring efforts have diminished, and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an RFP. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In June 2004, the FPSC approved FPLs proposal to build an 1,150 mw natural gas fired plant at its Turkey Point site with a planned in service date of mid 2007, which was subsequently approved by the Siting Board (c omprised of the Florida governor and cabinet) under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act in February 2005. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. The FPSC decided that GridFlorida as established by the FERC was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required revisions to the FERC proposed structure. The FPSC issued a procedural order establishing a series of workshops through 2004 to address GridFlorida issues. A pricing workshop and a market design workshop were held in March and May 2004, respectively. The third workshop scheduled for August 2004 was postponed pending the results of a cost benefit ana lysis of GridFlorida. See Item 1 FPL Operations Competition for further discussion. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. FPL is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, of the proposed rule. See Item 1 FPL Operations Competition for further discussion. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys net income (loss) for 2004, 2003, and 2002 was $172 million, $194 million and $(169) million, respectively. FPL Energys net income has become a greater portion of FPL Groups consolidated net income increasing from 1% in 1997 to 19% in 2004. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased primarily from increased net losses of approximately $50 million associated with restructuring activities, discussed below, and higher interest expense partially offset by the addition of new projects, primarily wind, and the improved results of the existing portfolio primarily due to improved market conditions, particularly in the NEPOOL region, and the absence of an outage at Seabrook. FPL Energys net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 benefited from project additions partially offset by lower earnings from merchant assets, primarily in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions, and higher interest expense. The improvement in net income in 2003 was also due to the absence of impairment and other charges recorded in 2002 that totaled $485 million ($295 million after tax). The impairment and other charges consisted of a goodwill impairment charge of $365 million ($222 million after tax) representing the cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and restructuring and other charges totaling $120 million ($73 million after tax) due to the unfavorable market conditions in the wholesale energy market. For further discussion of FAS 142, see Note 5 and for restructuring and other charges, see Note 6. Net income for 2004, 2003 and 2002 included net unrealized mark to market gains (losses) on non qualifying hedges of $(3) million, $22 million and $1 million, respectively. For further discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 3. FPL Energys 2004 net income benefited from the full year effect of 3,904 mw of wind and fossil generation added during 2003 and 39 mw of wind generation added during 2004. In aggregate, these project additions added $30 million to 2004 net income. FPL Energys operating revenues increased $453 million primarily driven by project additions, the commencement of a contract for the sale of the remaining 50% of the capacity of a natural gas fired facility in Alabama, lack of a refueling outage at the Seabrook facility, improvements in the NEPOOL region aided by higher gas prices and volatility in the oil gas price ratio and increased generation in the ERCOT region due to improved market conditions. Operating expenses increased $482 million, over half of which was fuel related, primarily driven by project additions and the increased generation in the ERCOT region. Included in operating expenses in 2004 are charges of $81 million associat ed with the restructuring of the Marcus Hook steam contract, which consisted of the write off of an auxiliary boiler of approximately $33 million and a $48 million contract termination payment. As a result of changes in market conditions since initiation of the Marcus Hook project in the late 1990s, it has become more economical to dispatch the plant during peak hours and uneconomical to operate the auxiliary boiler to satisfy the steam contract obligation when the plant is not running. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind development due to the extension of the production tax credit program through 2005 for new wind facilities, as well as from asset acquisitions. FPL Energy plans to add a total of 250 mw to 750 mw of wind generation by the end of 2005, including approximately 220 mw which are currently under construction and are expected to be in service by mid 2005. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, presented as equity in earnings of equity method investees, increased $5 million from the prior year primarily due to the positive effects on operating results of prior contract restructurings, the receipt of a portion of a settlement related to a previous investment in an Indonesian project partially offset by unrealized losses from non qualifying hedge activity in the portfolio in 2004 compared to gains in 2003. Also, during 2004, FPL Energy recorded a net gain of approximately $52 million on the termination of a gas supply contract and a steam agreement which was essentially offset by an impairment loss recorded as a result of agreeing to sell its interest in a combined cycle power plant in Texas. The sale was completed in 2004. FPL Energys net income for the year ended 2004 also reflected higher interest expense of approximately $56 million due to growth in the business reflecting more projects being placed in service and the acquisition of new projects, as well as higher average interest rates of approximately 60 basis points as compared to the prior year. FPL Energys 2003 net income benefited from the full year effect of 2,235 mw of generation added in 2002, the majority of which was added in the fourth quarter of 2002, as well as 3,904 mw added in 2003. The 2002 additions include the purchase of an 88.23% interest in Seabrook as well as wind and natural gas fired assets. During 2003, FPL Energy added 975 mw of wind generation and 2,929 mw of natural gas fired assets. In aggregate, 2002 and 2003 project additions contributed $82 million to 2003 net income. FPL Energys operating revenues and operating expenses for the year ended 2003 increased $561 million and $352 million, respectively, primarily driven by project additions. In addition, restructuring and impairment charges discussed above added $103 million to operating expenses in 2002. Operating revenues net of operating expenses, primarily fuel, were essentially flat in the balance of the portfolio. & nbsp;In 2003, both the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions experienced higher energy prices offset by lower generation and higher fuel costs. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 increased $13 million from the prior year reflecting an increase in unrealized gains associated with the mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges and a $17 million charge against its investment in two wind projects recorded in 2002. In addition, equity in earnings of equity method investees reflects lower gains from contract restructurings and lower earnings from a project in California, as well as lower project earnings due to higher fuel prices in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions. FPL Energys net income for the year ended 2003 also reflected higher interest expense of approximately $38 million associated with increasing average debt balances due to growth in the business partially offset by a decline in average interest rates of approximately 30 basis points compared with same period in 2002. FPL Energys net income in 2002 also included the positive effects of a $10 million insurance settlement. Over the last several years, there has been a general decline in the wholesale energy market, including deterioration in forward prices and reduced liquidity, as well as increasing credit concerns that have limited the number of counterparties with which FPL Energy does business. These market conditions have made it more difficult for FPL Energy to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices, to optimize the value of its assets and to contract the output of its plants. Any uncontracted output from the plants has been and will be sold into the market place at prevailing prices when economical. However, the major markets in which FPL Energy operates have shown modest signs of improvement during 2004. Given current market conditions, when FPL Energys existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced may be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets are the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans or available from other competitors and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Wholesale energy markets have experienced lower demand and lower wholesale energy margins as a result of weather and e conomic conditions and the oversupply of generation in certain regions. FPL Energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. FPL Energys 2005 earnings are subject to variability due to, among other things, operational performance, commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. FPL Energys exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the degree of contract coverage obtained for 2005. As of December 31, 2004, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2005 was as follows: Asset Class Available MW (a) % MW Under Contract Wind 2,917 98 % (b) Contracted (c) 2,170 99 % (b) Merchant: (d) NEPOOL 2,304 72 % (e) ERCOT 2,644 79 % (e) All other 1,274 8 % (e) Total portfolio 11,309 78 % (e) (a) Weighted to reflect in service dates, planned maintenance and a refueling outage at Seabrook in 2005. (b) Reflects round the clock mw under contract. (c) Includes all projects with mid to long term purchase power contracts for substantially all of their output. (d) Includes only those facilities that require active hedging. (e) Reflects on peak mw under contract. FPL Energys results are affected by natural fluctuations in weather. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, FPL Energy is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. FPL Energy actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. Substantially all of FPL Energys 2005 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of FPL FiberNet and other corporate income and expenses, such as interest income and interest expense. Corporate and Others net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $34 million, $37 million and $75 million, respectively. Results for Corporate and Other in 2004 reflect certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States as well as the resolution of other tax issues totaling approximately $30 million, partially offset by higher interest expense and the absence of gains at FPL FiberNet associated with restructuring two transactions in 2003. Corporate and Other allocates interest charges to FPL Energy based on a deemed capital structure at FPL Energy of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for projects under construction. Interest expense at Corporate and Other increased in 2004 due to allocating less interest expense to FPL E nergy as a result of the completion of a number of projects during 2003 that were previously under construction. Results from Corporate and Other for 2003 primarily reflect higher interest charges and the absence of restructuring and impairment charges recorded in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, impairment and other charges totaled $94 million after tax as a result of declines in the telecommunications market (see Note 6 2002 Corporate and Other) and reserves against certain leveraged lease investments. These charges were partially offset by a $30 million gain in 2002 from the resolution of an income tax matter. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, to pay maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, to redeem outstanding debt and preferred stock and or repurchase common stock. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. Credit ratings can affect FPL Groups, FPLs and FPL Group Capitals ability to obtain short and long term financing, the cost of such financing and the execution of their financing strategies. During 2004, the authorized common stock of FPL Group was increased 100 million sha res from 300 million to 400 million shares. Absent new investment opportunities in 2005, management expects cash to be available to FPL Group in excess of needs that are presently identified. Bank lines of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are as follows: FPL (a) FPL Group Capital Total Maturity Date (millions) $ 500 $ 1,000 $ 1,500 October 2006 1,000 1,000 2,000 October 2009 (b) $ 1,500 $ 2,000 $ 3,500 (a) Excludes a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility of a consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL. See below. (b) These facilities provide for the issuance of letters of credit of up to $1.5 billion ($750 million for FPL and $750 million for FPL Group Capital). The issuance of letters of credit is subject to the aggregate commitment under the applicable facility. These credit facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a transmission and distribution property loss (in the case of FPL), as well as for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2004, letters of credit totaling $238 million were outstanding under FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under FPLs credit facilities. FPL Group (which guarantees payment of FPL Group Capital credit facilities) is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and FPL is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPLs credit facilities. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL were in compliance with their respective ratio. In addition, FPL Group Capital and FPL have each established an uncommitted credit facility with a bank to be used for general corporate purposes. The bank may at its discretion, upon the request of FPL Group Capital or FPL, make a short term loan or loans to FPL Group Capital or FPL in an aggregate amount determined by the bank, which is subject to change at any time. The terms of the specific borrowings under the uncommitted credit facilities, including maturity, are set at the time borrowing requests are made by FPL Group Capital or FPL. At December 31, 2004, there were no amounts outstanding for either FPL Group Capital or FPL under the uncommitted credit facilities. A consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL has established a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which expires in June 2009, to provide backup support for its commercial paper program. FPL has provided an unconditional guarantee of the payment obligations of the VIE under the credit facility, which are included in the guarantee discussion below. At December 31, 2004, the VIE had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and approximately $35 million under the commercial paper program. FPL also provides an unconditional payment guarantee of the VIEs $135 million of 2.34% senior secured notes, maturing in June 2006, which is included in the guarantee discussion below. See Note 9 FPL. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital had $2.0 billion (issuable by either or both of them up to such aggregate amount) of available capacity under shelf registration statements. Securities that may be issued under the FPL Group and FPL Group Capital shelf registration statements, depending on the registrant, include common stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, preferred stock, senior debt securities, preferred trust securities and related subordinated debt securities, and guarantees relating to certain of those securities. This capacity is available for, among other things, new investment opportunities. At December 31, 2004, FPL had $1.0 billion of available capacity under its shelf registration statement. Securities that may be issued under FPLs shelf registration statement include preferred stock, first mortgage bonds, preferred trust securities and related subordinated debt securities and guarantees. During 2004, FPL sold 200,000 shares of $100 par value 4 1/2% Series V preferred stock to FPL Group and issued $240 million of 5.65% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2035, FPL Group Capital sold approximately $309 million of 5 7/8% junior subordinated debentures maturing in 2044 and FPL Energy drew $34 million from a construction term credit facility. FPL Group Capitals junior subordinated debentures were purchased by an unconsolidated 100% owned finance subsidiary of FPL Group using proceeds from the March 2004 sale by that finance subsidiary of $300 million of preferred trust securities to the public and $9 million of common trust securities to FPL Group. FPL Group has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the junior subordinated debentures and the preferred trust securities. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term debt on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets. During 2004, FPL Group Capital also repaid two variable rate term loans totaling $175 million, had $175 million of 6.875% debentures mature and reset the annual interest rate on $575 million principal amount of its debentures due February 2007 from 4.75% to 4.086%. These debentures were originally issued in February 2002 in connection with FPL Groups publicly traded equity units known as Corporate Units. The interest rate was reset as a result of FPL Group Capital remarketing approximately $554 million principal amount of these debentures. Neither FPL Group nor FPL Capital received any proceeds from the remarketing of the debentures. Subsidiaries of FPL Group also entered into several interest rate swap agreements during 2004. The swaps consisted of two variable interest rate swap agreements at FPL to protect $500 million of its outstanding 6.875% first mortgage bonds maturing in December 2005 against changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates; several variable interest rate swap agreements at FPL Group Capital to protect $200 million of its outstanding 1 7/8% debentures maturing in March 2005, $500 million of its outstanding 3 1/4% debentures maturing in 2006 and $575 million of its 4.086% debentures maturing in 2007 against changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates; and an interest rate swap agreement whereby an FPL Energy subsidiary receives LIBOR and pays a fixed rate of 3.845% on approximately $30 million of its variable rate debt in order to limit cash flow exposure. In January 2005, FPL redeemed all 250,000 shares of its $100 par value 4 1/2% preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2004 (Series A and Series V) and FPL Group Capital redeemed approximately $5 million of 7.35% bonds due 2013. In February 2005, an FPL Energy subsidiary entered into an interest rate swap to receive LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.255% to hedge approximately $4 million to $6 million through November 2007 and approximately $163 million to $173 million from November 2007 through June 2008. On February 16, 2005, FPL Group issued 9,270,090 shares of common stock in return for approximately $575 million in proceeds, upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued in connection with its Corporate Units issued in February 2002. In February 2005, subsidiaries of FPL Energy sold $365 million of 5.608% limited recourse senior secured bonds maturing in March 2024 and $100 million of 6.125% limited recourse senior secured bonds maturing in March 2019. &nbs p;See Note 14. The following provides various metrics regarding FPL Groups (including FPLs) and FPLs outstanding debt: FPL Group FPL December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Weighted average year to date interest rate (a) 5.4 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.5 % Weighted average life (years) 8.7 7.3 14.3 13.6 Year to date average of floating rate debt to total debt (a) 31 % 31 % 34 % 33 % (a) Calculations include interest rate swaps, if any. In June 2004, an indirect subsidiary of FPL Group sold a note receivable from a limited partnership of which Olympus is a general partner. Olympus is an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia. In June 2002, Adelphia, Olympus and the limited partnership filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, and the note, which was due July 1, 2002, was in default. The note receivable, which was previously recorded in other investments on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheet, was sold for its net book value of approximately $127 million, including accrued interest through the date of the commencement of the Chapter 11 proceedings, less related transaction costs which were not significant. Proceeds from the sale of the note were used to reduce FPL Group Capitals debt. FPL Groups charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. During the first quarter of 2004, FPL Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.60 to $0.62 per share. During the third quarter of 2004, FPL Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.62 to $0.68 per share. In February 2005, FPL Group announced that it would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.68 to $0.71 per share. FPL pays dividends to FPL Group in a manner consistent with FPLs long term targeted capital structure. In addition in 2002, FPL paid special dividends totaling $375 million to FPL Group. FPL Group made capital contributions in 2003 and 2002 to FPL of $600 million and $350 million, respectively. FPLs mortgage contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to FPL Group and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. On February 18, 2005, FPL Groups board of directors approved a two for one stock split of FPL Groups common stock effective March 15, 2005 (2005 stock split). FPL Groups authorized common stock will increase from 400 million to 800 million shares. After giving effect to the 2005 stock split, the subsequent quarterly dividend on FPL Groups common stock will be 35.5 cents per share. The share or per share information included in FPL Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 does not reflect the effect of the 2005 stock split. Under the mortgage securing FPLs first mortgage bonds, in some cases, the mortgage restricts the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPLs use of retained earnings. As of December 31, 2004, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage. FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPLs first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non junior FPL indebtedness. As of December 31, 2004, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2004, would have been in excess of 8.5 times the annual interest requirements and in excess of 5 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. As of December 31, 2004, FPL could have issued in excess of $5 billion of additional first mortgage bonds b ased on the unfunded property additions and in excess of $5.5 billion based on retired first mortgage bonds. As of December 31, 2004, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of debt outstanding. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL Group Capital and FPL, the maintenance of a specific minimum level of credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit facilities. However, commitment fees and interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements are tied to credit ratings and would increase or decrease when ratings are changed. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain power purchase and other agreements. FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, are regularly required to post collateral in excess of collateral threshold amounts when FPL Groups exposure to the counterparty under the applicable trading agreement exceeds such threshold. Securities of FPL Group and its subsidiaries are currently rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). At February 25, 2005, Moodys, S&P and Fitch had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys (a) S&P (a) Fitch (a) FPL Group: (b) Corporate credit rating A2 A A FPL: (c) Corporate credit rating A1 A/A 1 N/A First mortgage bonds Aa3 A AA Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds Aa3/VMIG 1 A/A 1 A+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 FPL Group Capital: (d) Corporate credit rating N/A A/A 1 N/A Debentures A2 A A Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. (b) The outlook indicated for FPL Group by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. (c) The outlook indicated for FPL by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. (d) The outlook indicated for FPL Group Capital by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. FPL Groups commitments at December 31, 2004 were as follows: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (millions) Long term debt, including interest: (a) FPL $ 665 $ 266 $ 129 $ 323 $ 335 $ 4,291 $ 6,009 FPL Energy 219 211 516 407 122 876 2,351 Corporate and Other 816 1,300 1,186 577 666 932 5,477 Corporate Units 18 2 20 Purchase obligations: FPL (b) 5,090 3,570 2,960 2,415 2,310 7,740 24,085 FPL Energy (c) 447 55 69 52 52 734 1,409 Asset retirement activities: (d) FPL (e) 7,056 7,056 FPL Energy (f) 1 1,625 1,626 Other commitments: Corporate and Other 75 75 Total $ 7,331 $ 5,404 $ 4,860 $ 3,774 $ 3,485 $ 23,254 $ 48,108 (a) Includes principal, interest and interest rate swaps. Variable rate interest was computed using December 31, 2004 rates. (b) Represents required capacity and minimum payments under long term purchased power and fuel contracts, the majority of which is recoverable through various cost recovery clauses (see Note 16 Contracts), and projected capital expenditures through 2009 to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities (see Note 16 Commitments). (c) Represents firm commitments primarily in connection with natural gas transportation, supply and storage, firm transmission service, nuclear fuel and a portion of its capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments and Contracts. (d) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. (e) At December 31, 2004, FPL had $1,971 million in restricted trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPLs nuclear units, which are included in special use funds. (f) At December 31, 2004, FPL Energys 88.23% portion of Seabrooks restricted trust fund for the payment of future expenditures to decommission Seabrook was $300 million and is included in FPL Groups special use funds. FPL Group and FPL obtain letters of credit and issue guarantees to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. At February 11, 2005, FPL Group had standby letters of credit of approximately $464 million ($16 million for FPL) and approximately $4,553 million notional amount of guarantees ($240 million for FPL), of which approximately $4,076 million ($256 million for FPL) have expirations within the next five years. These guarantees support the buying and selling of wholesale energy commodities, debt related reserves and other contractual agreements. FPL Group and FPL believe it is unlikely that they would be required to perform or otherwise incur any losses associated with these guarantees and as a result, at December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL did not have any liabilities recorded for these guarantees. In addition, FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including most of those under FPL Group Capitals debt, including all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its guarantees, and FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of FPL Energy and its subsidiaries. See Note 16 Commitments. In addition to the above, FPL Energy has guaranteed certain performance obligations of a power plant owned by a wholly owned subsidiary as part of a power purchase agreement that expires in 2027. Under this agreement, the subsidiary could incur market based liquidated damages for failure to meet contractual minimum outputs. In addition, certain subsidiaries of FPL Energy have contracts that require certain projects to meet annual minimum generation amounts. Failure to meet the annual minimum generation amounts would result in the FPL Energy subsidiary incurring specified liquidated damages. Based on past performance of these and similar projects and current forward prices, management believes that the exposure associated with these guarantees is not material. An FPL Energy subsidiary is committed to purchase oil and gas inventory remaining in certain storage facilities at December 31, 2005 at its weighted average cost. At December 31, 2004, the subsidiarys commitment is estimated to be from $0 to approximately $68 million, based on a potential range of zero to full storage volume at the current average forward price of oil and gas. Upon expiration of the commitment, FPL Energy expects to either negotiate a new contract or use any remaining fuel to operate the plant. During the third quarter of 2004, FPL was impacted by Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne, each of which did major damage in parts of FPLs service territory and collectively resulted in over 5.4 million customer power outages with approximately three quarters of FPLs customers losing power during at least one hurricane. Damage to FPL property was primarily to the transmission and distribution systems. Although FPL has not completed the final accounting of all restoration costs, FPL accrued restoration costs totaling approximately $890 million as of December 31, 2004. In addition, based on assessments as of December 31, 2004, FPL estimated it had sustained other property losses totaling approximately $109 million which is expected to be recovered from insurance carriers, of which $20 million has been advanced and the remaining $89 million is included in other current assets on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. During the fourth quarter of 2004, all available funds were withdrawn from the storm fund to pay for storm costs. At December 31, 2004, approximately $352 million was accrued and included in other current liabilities on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2004, storm costs expected to be recoverable from customers exceeded the balance of the storm reserve by approximately $536 million. This deficiency has been deferred pursuant to an FPSC order and recorded as a regulatory asset on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. During February 2005, pursuant to an FPSC order, FPL began recovering storm restoration costs from customers, subject to refund, pending the outcome of a hearing in April 2005 to determine the amount of storm restoration costs that FPL will be allowed to recover from customers. FPL Group received a $73 million federal tax refund in the fourth quarter of 2004 as a result of casualty losses associated with the hurricanes. &nbs p;In addition, restoration costs associated with the hurricanes have created a tax loss in 2004, which deferred the utilization of tax credits. See Note 4. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide additional liquidity for storm restoration costs. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which was subsequently revised. See Note 9. Other Postretirement Benefits In May 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 106 2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003." See Note 2. Stock Based Compensation Beginning July 1, 2005, FPL will be required to adopt FAS 123(R), "Share Based Payment." See Note 1 Stock Based Compensation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to exercise judgment and make estimates and assumptions where amounts are not subject to precise measurement or are dependent on future events. Critical accounting policies and estimates, which are important to the portrayal of both FPL Groups and FPLs financial condition and results of operations and which require complex, subjective judgments are as follows: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity contracts, optimize the value of power generation assets and related contracts and manage risks associated with changes in interest rates. To a lesser extent, FPL Group also engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected favorable price movements. These accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity and fuel. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. The near term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel and capacity clauses. In non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in derivative fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless the criteria for hedge accounting are met and the company elects to account for the derivative as a hedge. For those transactions accounted for as cash flow hed ges, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of common shareholders equity, rather than being recognized in current earnings. For those transactions accounted for as fair value hedges the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in current earnings offset by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. Since FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and, from time to time, issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133. In particular, much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from the provisions of FAS 133. Despite the large volume of implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance does not provide specific guidance on all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations. The interpretation of FAS 133 continues to evolve. A result of changes in interpretation could be that contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of FAS 133 would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. During the fourth quarter of 2003, FPL Group and its subsidiaries adopted EITF 03 11, which precluded certain economic hedging transactions at FPL Energy from qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in fair value of those transactions are now marked to market and reported in the non qualifying hedge category and may result in more volatility in the non qualifying hedge category in the future. The ongoing changes in accounting guidance relating to derivatives confirm managements belief in the importance of segregating the effects of the unrealized mark to market impact of non qualifying hedges. Without any change in FPL Groups economic positions or the timing or amounts of future cash flows, a small change in classification of particular transactions can result in significant changes in net income. This could be significant to FPL Energys results because often the economic offset to the positions which are required to be marked to market (such as the p hysical assets from which power is generated) are not marked to market. As a consequence, net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically linked transactions. Because of this, FPL Groups management continues to view results expressed excluding the unrealized mark to market impact of the non qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3. Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits FPL Group sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries. FPL Group also has a non qualified supplemental defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits to higher level employees. In addition to pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a substantially contributory postretirement plan for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits) for retirees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility requirements. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing the benefits under the plan. The other benefits plan has a partially funded trust dedicated to providing benefits related to life insurance. FPL Groups pension income net of the cost of other benefits was approximately $81 million, $78 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $63 million, $60 million and $70 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of other benefits are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years, assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4.0% for 2004, 4.5% for 2003 and 5.5% for 2002, and a weighted average discount rate of 5.50%, 6.00% and 6.25% for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Based on current health care costs, the projected 2005 trend assumption used to measure the expected cost of health care benefits covered by the other benefits plan is 9.0%. The rate is assumed to decrease over the next eight years to the ultimate trend rate of 5.0% and remain at that level thereafter. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the market place. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year historical median returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds. FPL Group also considered its funds historical compounded returns. FPL Group believes that 7.75% is a reasonable long term rate of return on its plans assets. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market re lated value of assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% (from 7.75% to 7.25%) would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $14 million ($12 million for FPL). Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $6 million ($5 million for FPL). Raising the salary increase assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $2 million ($2 million for FPL). Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for postretirement plans providing health care benefits. An increase or decrease of 1% in assumed health care cost trend rates would have a corresponding effect on the service and interest cost components and the accumulated obligation of other benefits of approximately $1 million and $8 million, respectively. The fair value of plan assets has increased from $2.7 billion at September 30, 2003 to $2.9 billion at September 30, 2004 for the pension plan and decreased from $54 million at September 30, 2003 to $50 million at September 30, 2004 for other benefits. Management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. In December 2004, $21 million was transferred from the qualified pension plan as reimbursement for eligible retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group during the year pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. FPL Group anticipates paying approximately $28 million for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the other benefits plan during 2005 with substantially all of that amount being reimbursed through a transfer of assets from the qualified pension plan pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. See Note 2. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Under that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. The most recent studies, which became effective May 2002, indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is $6.4 billion, or $2.2 billion in 2004 dollars. FPL plans to file updated nuclear decommissioning studies in 2005. Beginning January 1, 2003, FPL began recognizing nuclear decommissioning liabilities in accordance with FAS 143, which requires that a liability for the fair value of an asset retirement obligation (ARO) be recognized in the period in which it is incurred with the offsetting associated asset retirement cost capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset. At December 31, 2004, $2,224 million was accr ued for nuclear decommissioning, of which $2,013 million was recorded as an ARO, $214 million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $267 million was recorded as a regulatory liability and $158 million was included in accrued asset removal costs on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC at least every four years. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies, which became effective January 1, 2003, indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $668 million. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered an ARO under FAS 143. At December 31, 2004, the provision for fossil dismantlement was approximately $291 million and is included in accrued asset removal costs. FPL Energy records a liability for the present value of Seabrooks expected decommissioning costs in accordance with FAS 143. Comprehensive studies are filed with the New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee every four years, with updates provided annually. These studies indicate that FPL Energys 88.23% portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning Seabrook, including costs associated with spent fuel storage, is approximately $1,496 million, or $578 million in 2004 dollars. At December 31, 2004, the ARO for Seabrooks nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $175 million. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves the use of estimates and judgments concerning the amount and timing of future expenditures and whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation under FAS 143. FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate, rate of return and inflation projections to determine funding requirements related to decommissioning. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update their estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Regulatory Accounting FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of FAS 71 is assessed at each reporting period. FPLs regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: December 31, 2004 2003 (millions) Regulatory assets: Current: Deferred clause and franchise expenses $ 230 $ 348 Storm reserve deficiency $ 163 $ Derivatives $ 9 $ Noncurrent: Storm reserve deficiency $ 373 $ Unamortized loss on reacquired debt $ 45 $ 48 Litigation settlement $ 45 $ 89 Other $ 38 $ 22 Regulatory liabilities: Current: Deferred clause and franchise revenues $ 30 $ 48 Derivatives $ $ 93 Noncurrent: Accrued asset removal costs $ 2,012 $ 1,902 Storm and property insurance reserve $ $ 327 Asset retirement obligation regulatory expense difference $ 266 $ 180 Unamortized investment tax credits $ 81 $ 100 Other $ 106 $ 160 See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity transactions, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in derivative assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, essentially all changes in the derivatives fair value for power purchases and sales and trading activities are recognized net in operating revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized net in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. See Note 3. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups consolidated subsidiaries energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: Hedges on Owned Assets Proprietary Trading Managed Non Qualifying OCI FPL Cost Recovery Clauses FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 $ 4 $ $ 8 $ 28 $ 12 $ 52 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (9) (1 ) 12 (57 ) (3 ) (58 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 18 18 Changes in valuation assumptions 2 2 (a) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 12 2 (1 ) 85 98 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003 7 1 21 (11 ) 94 112 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (15 ) (2 ) (60 ) 1 (223 ) (299 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (99 ) (99 ) Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (7 ) (7 ) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 14 (1 ) 36 120 169 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004 6 (2 ) (10 ) (109 ) (9 ) (124 ) Net option premium payments (receipts) 31 31 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2004 $ 6 $ (2 ) $ (10 ) $ (109 ) $ 22 $ (93 ) (a) Change in valuation assumption from applying volatility skewness (selection of an input assumption among alternatives based on the projected moneyness of the option) in option valuation. FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2004 shown above are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: December 31, 2004 (millions) Derivative assets $ 107 Other assets 24 Other current liabilities (114 ) Other liabilities (110 ) FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (93 ) The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2004 were as follows: Maturity 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (millions) Proprietary Trading: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices $ (12 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ (14 ) Prices provided by other external sources 21 2 1 1 25 Modeled (6 ) 1 (5 ) Total 3 1 1 1 6 Owned Assets Managed: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (6 ) (6 ) Prices provided by other external sources 4 4 Modeled Total (2 ) (2 ) Owned Assets Non Qualifying: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices 3 1 4 Prices provided by other external sources 5 (2 ) (1 ) 2 Modeled 5 (5 ) (3 ) (3 ) (3 ) (7 ) (16 ) Total 13 (6 ) (4 ) (3 ) (3 ) (7 ) (10 ) Owned Assets OCI: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (2 ) (2 ) Prices provided by other external sources (30 ) (27 ) (25 ) (4 ) (86 ) Modeled (11 ) (4 ) (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) (21 ) Total (43 ) (31 ) (28 ) (6 ) (1 ) (109 ) Owned Assets FPL Cost Recovery Clauses: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (8 ) (8 ) Prices provided by other external sources (1 ) (1 ) Modeled Total (9 ) (9 ) Total sources of fair value $ (38 ) $ (37 ) $ (32 ) $ (8 ) $ (3 ) $ (6 ) $ (124 ) Market Risk Sensitivity Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group and FPL manage their interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates and adjusting their variable rat e debt in relation to total capitalization. FPL Group and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. FPL Group manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. FPL Groups credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading and Managed Hedges Non Qualifying Hedges and Hedges in OCI (a) Total FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2003 $ $ $ $ 25 $ 5 $ 26 $ 25 $ 4 $ 26 December 31, 2004 $ $ $ $ 55 $ 12 $ 48 $ 55 $ 15 $ 47 Average for the period ended December 31, 2004 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 29 $ 6 $ 25 $ 29 $ 8 $ 25 (a) Non qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non qualifying hedges and hedges in OCI category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. Interest rate risk FPL Group and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their issuances of debt, investments in special use funds and interest rate swaps. FPL Group and FPL manage their interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates and adjusting their variable rate debt in relation to total capitalization. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPL Groups and FPLs financial instruments: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value FPL Group: (millions) Long term debt, including current maturities $ 9,247 $ 9,611 (a) $ 9,090 $ 9,548 (a) Fixed income securities: Special use funds $ 1,219 $ 1,219 (b) $ 1,316 $ 1,316 (b) Other investments $ 72 $ 72 (b) $ 57 $ 57 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ (11 ) $ (11 )(c) $ (10 ) $ (10 )(c) FPL: Long term debt, including current maturities $ 3,311 $ 3,438 (a) $ 3,074 $ 3,193 (a) Fixed income securities: Special use funds $ 1,081 $ 1,081 (b) $ 1,188 1,188 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ (2 ) $ (2 )(c) $ $ (a) Based on market prices provided by external sources. (b) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. (c) Based on market prices modeled internally. The special use funds of FPL Group include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. At December 31, 2004, the special use funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL were fully utilized. A portion of the special use funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer t erm securities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. See Note 10. FPL Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to adjust and mitigate interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. At December 31, 2004, the estimated fair value for FPL Group interest rate swaps was as follows: Notional Amount Effective Date Maturity Date Rate Paid Rate Received Estimated Fair Value (millions) (millions) Fair value hedges FPL: $ 250 April 2004 December 2005 variable (a) 6.875 % $ (1 ) $ 250 May 2004 December 2005 variable (b) 6.875 % (1 ) Fair value hedges FPL Group Capital: $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (c) 7.625 % (3 ) $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (d) 7.625 % (3 ) $ 200 January 2004 March 2005 variable (e) 1.875 % (1 ) $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (f) 3.250 % (1 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (g) 3.250 % $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (h) 3.250 % (1 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (i) 3.250 % $ 300 November 2004 February 2007 variable (j) 4.086 % $ 275 December 2004 February 2007 variable (k) 4.086 % 1 Total fair value hedges (10 ) Cash flow hedges FPL Energy: $ 96 July 2002 December 2007 4.41 % variable (l) (2 ) $ 195 August 2003 November 2007 3.557 % variable (l) $ 92 December 2003 December 2017 4.245 % variable (l) $ 30 April 2004 December 2017 3.845 % Variable (l) 1 Total cash flow hedges (1 ) Total interest rate hedges $ (11 ) (a) Six month LIBOR plus 3.7285% (b) Six month LIBOR plus 3.6800% (c) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9900% (d) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9925% (e) Six month LIBOR less 0.1375% (f) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0153% (g) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0100% (h) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1500% (i) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1525% (j) Three month LIBOR plus 0.50577% (k) Three month LIBOR plus 0.4025% (l) Three month LIBOR Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of FPL Groups net liabilities would increase by approximately $203 million ($90 million for FPL) at December 31, 2004. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $1,051 million and $926 million ($890 million and $781 million for FPL) at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $105 million ($89 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL, or adjustments to OCI for FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, at December 31, 2004. Credit risk For all derivative and contractual transactions, FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations, which includes FPLs energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Relevant considerations when assessing FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations credit risk exposure include: Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the United States. Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies. Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of cash collateral. The use of master netting agreements to offset cash and non cash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. FPL Groups policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. Based on FPL Groups policies and risk exposures related to credit, FPL Group and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial positions as a result of counterparty nonperformance. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 99% of FPL Groups and 96% of FPLs energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have at least investment grade credit ratings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Overview FPL Group is one of the nations largest providers of electricity related services. Its principal subsidiary, FPL, serves more than eight million people along the eastern seaboard and southern portion of Florida. FPL Energy, FPL Groups wholesale energy subsidiary, produces electricity primarily utilizing natural gas, wind and nuclear resources. Together, FPLs and FPL Energys generating assets represent approximately 30,000 mw of capacity. FPL FiberNet provides fiber optic services to FPL, telecommunications companies and other customers throughout Florida. FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the retail sale of electricity. Over the last 10 years, FPLs customer growth has been 2.1% while underlying usage growth has been 0.8%. FPL is meeting the increased demands of its customers by adding to its generation capacity and electric transmission and distribution infrastructure. FPL plans to add about 1,900 mw of generating capacity in 2005 at a total investment of over $1 billion. This will provide enough power to meet the needs of approximately 400,000 new customers and FPL expects a reserve margin of 25% for all of its customers. These projects are utilizing natural gas fired and combined cycle generators. FPLs O&M expenses declined in 2004 despite increased costs of nuclear plant maintenance and insurance; however, O&M expenses are expected to increase in 2005 reflecting continued upward trends in nuclear maintenance, insurance and employee r elated costs as well as increased maintenance costs for fossil generation plants due to a number of FPLs older units going through major overhauls. FPLs O&M expenses per retail kilowatt hour also declined in 2004 and are below the 2003 industry average according to the most current reference data available from government sources. In 2004, FPLs availability factor for its fossil and nuclear generating units were 94% and 88%, respectively, and the average minutes a customer was without power was 69 minutes, excluding the impact of the three hurricances that hit FPLs service territory, compared to the 2003 industry average of 137 minutes. Growing demand for electricity in FPLs service territory has prompted the need for additional power plants and other capital improvements, the costs of which have resulted in FPL notifying the FPSC on January 21, 2005 of its intent to file for a rate increase effective January 2006. FPLs business strategy is to meet the in creased demands of customer growth and focus on improving operating performance. FPL Energy is in the wholesale generation business with the majority of its operating revenues derived from wholesale electricity sales. Its market is diversified by region as well as by fuel source. More than 85% of the expected 2005 gross margin from FPL Energys wholesale generation fleet is hedged against fuel and electricity market volatility. FPL Energys trading business is focused on reducing risk and extracting maximum value from its assets. FPL Energy is one of the largest producers of wind energy in the world, and with the extension of the production tax credit program through December 2005, plans to continue expanding its wind portfolio in 2005 through construction of new facilities and selective acquisitions. FPL Energys business strategy is to maximize the value of its current portfolio, expand its U.S. market leading wind position, build its portfolio and explore gas infrastructure opportunities. Results of Operations Summary FPL Groups net income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $887 million, $890 million and $473 million, respectively. See Note 17 for segment information. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects reduced earnings at FPL Energy partially offset by improved results at FPL. At Corporate and Other, the impact of the favorable resolution of certain tax issues was partially offset by higher interest expense. FPLs 2004 results improved as a result of strong customer growth and the settlement of shareholder litigation initiated in 2002 and 2003, but were partially offset by the impacts of three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory during the third quarter of 2004, as well as lower customer usage due to overall milder weather. These hurricanes resulted in lost revenues and an increase in O&M expenses including higher reserves for uncollectible ac counts for FPL, and reduced FPLs net income by approximately $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. FPL Energys 2004 results decreased due to the effect of restructuring activities during 2004 compared to 2003 and higher interest expense partially offset by increased earnings from its existing portfolio as well as project additions. In addition, FPL Energys net income for 2004 reflects unrealized losses from non qualifying hedges of $3 million while 2003 net income reflects unrealized gains of $22 million and a $3 million charge due to a change in accounting principle. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 benefited from improved results at both FPL and FPL Energy, as well as the absence of certain impairment and other charges recorded in 2002 that reduced FPL Energys 2002 net income by $295 million ($485 million pretax). In addition, 2003 results at the Corporate and Other segment benefited from the absence of certain impairmen t and other charges, net of income tax settlements, recorded in 2002 which reduced 2002 results by $64 million ($152 million pretax). In addition, FPL Energys net income for 2003 reflects unrealized gains from non qualifying hedges of $22 million compared to $1 million in 2002. FPL Groups 2004 net income also benefited from certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States, as well as the resolution of other tax issues. FPL Groups effective tax rate for all periods presented reflect production tax credits for wind projects at FPL Energy. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2002 was further reduced by a gain from the resolution of an income tax matter. FPL Group and its subsidiaries segregate unrealized mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions into two categories. The first category, referred to as trading and managed hedge activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The second category, referred to as non qualifying hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges (but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended) and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. These transactions have been entered into to reduce FPL Groups aggregate risk. FPL Groups management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings), which in 2004 were the mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges, internally for financial planning, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and for FPL Groups employee incentive compensation plan. FPL Group also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. FPL Groups management believes adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the companys fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded items are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, both the size and nature of such items can make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. FPL FPLs net income available to FPL Group for 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $749 million, $733 million and $717 million, respectively. During 2004, FPLs net income benefited from strong customer growth, underlying customer usage growth, FPLs portion of the amount received by FPL Group related to the settlement of shareholder litigation which reduced O&M expenses and other reductions in O&M expenses. In addition, the allowance for funds used during construction, primarily equity funds, increased during 2004 reflecting higher plant balances under construction. However, the effect of milder weather as compared to 2003, the impact of three hurricanes and higher depreciation expense partially offset these benefits. The hurricanes resulted in lost revenues of approximately $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and have made 2005 results at FPL more difficult to estimate due to the uncertainty of the impact of the storms on revenue growth. & nbsp;During 2003, FPLs net income benefited from higher revenues from retail base operations partially offset by higher O&M expenses, depreciation expense and property taxes. FPLs 2003 net income also reflects a loss related to the redemption of preferred stock, which was substantially offset by tax benefits related to the favorable settlement of tax audit issues with the IRS. In 2002, the FPSC approved a rate agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which became effective April 15, 2002 and expires December 31, 2005. The agreement includes a revenue sharing mechanism for each of the twelve month periods covered by the agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of a stated threshold are required to be shared on the basis of two thirds refunded to retail customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second threshold are required to be refunded 100% to retail customers. The rate agreement provides for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%. The revenue sharing thresholds specified in the rate agreement are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2002(a) 2003 2004 2005 (millions) 66 2/3% to customers $ 3,580 $ 3,680 $ 3,780 $ 3,880 100% to customers $ 3,740 $ 3,840 $ 3,940 $ 4,040 (a) Refund was limited to 71.5% (representing the period April 15 through December 31, 2002) of the revenues from base rate operations exceeding the thresholds. During the term of the rate agreement, FPL does not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. However, FPL continues to file monthly earnings surveillance reports with the FPSC and if the reported ROE falls below 10% during the term of the rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The rate agreement would terminate on the effective date of any final order issued in a proceeding that changes FPLs base rates. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. In addition, depreciation rates will not be changed during the term of the agreement; however, FPL will reduce its recorded depreciation expense by $125 million annually. Accordingly, depreciation expense for all periods presented reflects this reduction. See Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. On January 21, 2005, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate proceeding in March 2005. Although FPL has not finalized its 2006 and 2007 revenue requirements, it expects to request a $400 million to $450 million annual increase in base rates beginning on January 1, 2006 and an additional annual base rate increase of approximately $130 million in mid 2007 to cover the costs associated with the 1,150 mw natural gas fired unit at Turkey Point expected to be placed in service in mid 2007. Hearings on the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2005 and a final decision is expected by the end of 2005. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Retail base operations $ 3,664 $ 3,680 $ 3,603 Revenue refund provision (3 ) (34 ) Cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs 4,999 4,558 3,793 Other, primarily gas and wholesale sales 71 58 16 Total $ 8,734 $ 8,293 $ 7,378 For the year ended December 31, 2004, the decrease in retail base revenues was primarily due to a decrease in usage per retail customer, partially offset by a 2.6% increase in the average number of customer accounts. A 2.7% decrease in usage per retail customer resulted in a decrease in revenues from retail base operations of approximately $100 million, primarily due to milder weather and customer service interruptions during the three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory. The increase in the average number of customer accounts, as well as other factors, increased revenues from retail base operations by $84 million. The increase in retail base revenues in 2003 was primarily due to an increase in customer accounts and an increase in usage per retail customer. The increase in 2003 was partially offset by the effect of the 7% base rate reduction, or $62 million, pursuant to the rate agreement that was effective in mid April 2002. A 2.4% increase in the number of retail customer accounts increased revenues by $85 million, while the balance of the increase, or $54 million, was primarily due to a 1.7% increase in electricity usage per retail customer. Revenues from cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs, such as franchise fees and revenue taxes, do not significantly affect net income; however, under or over recovery of such costs can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in these revenues, as well as in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. Effective January 1, 2003, the FPSC approved a risk management fuel procurement program, which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPLs fuel requirements. The results of the program are reviewed by the FPSC as part of the annual review of fuel costs. The increase i n revenues from cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 reflect higher fuel charges to customers primarily to recover previously underrecovered fuel related costs resulting from higher than projected fuel costs. FPLs O&M expenses decreased $22 million in 2004 reflecting the receipt of approximately $21 million associated with the settlement of the shareholder litigation. The settlement was offset by higher nuclear maintenance costs of $10 million, higher insurance costs of $8 million and an increase in the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable of $8 million in connection with the hurricanes. The remainder of the fluctuation in the 2004 O&M expenses was primarily due to the absence of certain legal expenses recorded in 2003. Management expects to see a continued upward trend in nuclear maintenance, insurance and employee related costs for 2005, as well as an increase in maintenance costs for fossil generation plants as major overhauls are planned for a number of older units. In conjunction with an NRC order, FPL has performed visual and volumetric inspections of its nuclear units reactor vessel heads during their scheduled refueling outages since October 2002. The inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 revealed CRDM nozzles with cracks, which were repaired during the outages. During the fall of 2004, FPL replaced the reactor vessel head at Turkey Point Unit No. 3. FPL anticipates replacing the reactor vessel heads at Turkey Point Unit No. 4 and St. Lucie Unit No. 1 during their next scheduled refueling outage. In January 2005, FPL received permission from the NRC to plug up to 30% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generator tubes. To date, 18.9% of these tubes have been plugged. It is possible that during St. Lucie No. 2s next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2006 the 30% tube plugging limit could be exceeded. Management is currently evaluating various options, including sleeving degraded tubes, to stay within the tube plugging limit. FPL has requested NRC approval to sleeve degraded tubes as an alternative to plugging. Management intends to replace the reactor vessel head and steam generators at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. The replacement cost of the reactor vessel heads and steam generators is expected to be $558 million and is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. The cost of performing inspections and any necessary repairs until the reactor vessel heads are replaced is being recognized as expense on a levelized basis over a five year period beginning in 2002, as authorized by the FPSC, and amounted to approximately $11 million in 2004, $13 million in 2003 and $13 million in 2002. Pursuant to a 2003 NRC bulletin, FPL has performed inspections of the bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations at both of its Turkey Point units and to date, no evidence of leakage from these penetrations has been noted. St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 do not have bottom mounted instrumentation penetrations. In conjunction with a 2004 NRC bulletin, FPL must perform inspections of all alloy 600 and weld materials in pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. To date, no leaks have been identified based on inspections at St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2. Due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, FPL has decided to replace St. Lucie Unit No. 1s pressurizer during its next scheduled refueling and reactor vessel head replacement outage. The estimated cost for the pressurizer is included in estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. FPL has decided to repair St. Lucie Unit No. 2s pressurizer heater sleeve penetrations during its scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007. The estimated cost of this repair is approximately $12 million, which will be charged to O&M expense. All pressurizer penetrations and welds at Tur key Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. See Item 1 FPL Operations Nuclear Operations for further discussion of the above nuclear plant related matters. In 2003, O&M expenses reflected increases in nuclear maintenance expenses discussed above of $29 million, employee benefit costs, primarily medical related, of $17 million and property and liability insurance costs of $17 million due to higher insurance premiums combined with lower refunds under nuclear insurance policies. The 2003 cost increases were partially offset by the absence of a one time storm fund accrual of $35 million recorded in 2002, as well as productivity improvements in other areas. For the year ended December 31, 2004, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $17 million, reflecting continued growth of electric utility plant in service. Depreciation expense will continue to grow as FPL continues to invest in generation and distribution expansion to support customer growth and demand. The latter half of 2005 will see the introduction of approximately 1,900 mw of natural gas combined cycle generation at its Martin and Manatee sites. Also, FPL plans to build a 1,150 mw natural gas fired plant with a planned in service date of mid 2007 as discussed below. Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2003 by $67 million primarily due to FPLs investment in generation and distribution expansion to support customer growth and demand which included the completion of the Fort Myers and Sanford repowering projects. FPL has received 20 year operating license extensions for its four nuclear units. The original license expiration dates for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 are 2012, 2013, 2016 and 2023, respectively. FPL has not yet decided to operate past the original license expiration dates, although FPL is continuing to take actions to ensure the long term viability of the units in order to preserve this option. The decision will be made for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 by 2007 and for St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 by 2011. Any adjustment to depreciation and decommissioning rates would require FPSC approval. Interest charges for 2004 increased primarily due to an increase of 40 basis points in average interest rates as compared to 2003, higher average debt balances used to fund increased investment in generation, transmission and distribution expansion and to pay for storm restoration costs. Interest charges for 2003 increased primarily due to higher average debt balances used to fund increased investment in generation, transmission and distribution expansion and under recovery of fuel costs. This increase was partially offset by a decline in average interest rates of approximately 80 basis points in 2003 as compared to 2002. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2004, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. This regulatory restructuring is expected to result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the mark et based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed that transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Within the last few years, these state restructuring efforts have diminished, and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the electric industry in Florida in the near future. The FPSC promotes competition for building major new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an RFP. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC authorize the construction of the bidders generation capacity under the terms of the power purchase agreement. In June 2004, the FPSC approved FPLs proposal to build an 1,150 mw natural gas fired plant at its Turkey Point site with a planned in service date of mid 2007, which was subsequently approved by the Siting Board (c omprised of the Florida governor and cabinet) under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act in February 2005. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In March 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. The FPSC decided that GridFlorida as established by the FERC was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required revisions to the FERC proposed structure. The FPSC issued a procedural order establishing a series of workshops through 2004 to address GridFlorida issues. A pricing workshop and a market design workshop were held in March and May 2004, respectively. The third workshop scheduled for August 2004 was postponed pending the results of a cost benefit ana lysis of GridFlorida. See Item 1 FPL Operations Competition for further discussion. In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reform public utilities transmission tariffs and implement a standardized design for electric markets in the United States. FPL is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, of the proposed rule. See Item 1 FPL Operations Competition for further discussion. In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. FPL Energy FPL Energys net income (loss) for 2004, 2003, and 2002 was $172 million, $194 million and $(169) million, respectively. FPL Energys net income has become a greater portion of FPL Groups consolidated net income increasing from 1% in 1997 to 19% in 2004. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased primarily from increased net losses of approximately $50 million associated with restructuring activities, discussed below, and higher interest expense partially offset by the addition of new projects, primarily wind, and the improved results of the existing portfolio primarily due to improved market conditions, particularly in the NEPOOL region, and the absence of an outage at Seabrook. FPL Energys net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 benefited from project additions partially offset by lower earnings from merchant assets, primarily in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions, and higher interest expense. The improvement in net income in 2003 was also due to the absence of impairment and other charges recorded in 2002 that totaled $485 million ($295 million after tax). The impairment and other charges consisted of a goodwill impairment charge of $365 million ($222 million after tax) representing the cumulative effect of adopting FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and restructuring and other charges totaling $120 million ($73 million after tax) due to the unfavorable market conditions in the wholesale energy market. For further discussion of FAS 142, see Note 5 and for restructuring and other charges, see Note 6. Net income for 2004, 2003 and 2002 included net unrealized mark to market gains (losses) on non qualifying hedges of $(3) million, $22 million and $1 million, respectively. For further discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 3. FPL Energys 2004 net income benefited from the full year effect of 3,904 mw of wind and fossil generation added during 2003 and 39 mw of wind generation added during 2004. In aggregate, these project additions added $30 million to 2004 net income. FPL Energys operating revenues increased $453 million primarily driven by project additions, the commencement of a contract for the sale of the remaining 50% of the capacity of a natural gas fired facility in Alabama, lack of a refueling outage at the Seabrook facility, improvements in the NEPOOL region aided by higher gas prices and volatility in the oil gas price ratio and increased generation in the ERCOT region due to improved market conditions. Operating expenses increased $482 million, over half of which was fuel related, primarily driven by project additions and the increased generation in the ERCOT region. Included in operating expenses in 2004 are charges of $81 million associat ed with the restructuring of the Marcus Hook steam contract, which consisted of the write off of an auxiliary boiler of approximately $33 million and a $48 million contract termination payment. As a result of changes in market conditions since initiation of the Marcus Hook project in the late 1990s, it has become more economical to dispatch the plant during peak hours and uneconomical to operate the auxiliary boiler to satisfy the steam contract obligation when the plant is not running. FPL Energy expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind development due to the extension of the production tax credit program through 2005 for new wind facilities, as well as from asset acquisitions. FPL Energy plans to add a total of 250 mw to 750 mw of wind generation by the end of 2005, including approximately 220 mw which are currently under construction and are expected to be in service by mid 2005. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, presented as equity in earnings of equity method investees, increased $5 million from the prior year primarily due to the positive effects on operating results of prior contract restructurings, the receipt of a portion of a settlement related to a previous investment in an Indonesian project partially offset by unrealized losses from non qualifying hedge activity in the portfolio in 2004 compared to gains in 2003. Also, during 2004, FPL Energy recorded a net gain of approximately $52 million on the termination of a gas supply contract and a steam agreement which was essentially offset by an impairment loss recorded as a result of agreeing to sell its interest in a combined cycle power plant in Texas. The sale was completed in 2004. FPL Energys net income for the year ended 2004 also reflected higher interest expense of approximately $56 million due to growth in the business reflecting more projects being placed in service and the acquisition of new projects, as well as higher average interest rates of approximately 60 basis points as compared to the prior year. FPL Energys 2003 net income benefited from the full year effect of 2,235 mw of generation added in 2002, the majority of which was added in the fourth quarter of 2002, as well as 3,904 mw added in 2003. The 2002 additions include the purchase of an 88.23% interest in Seabrook as well as wind and natural gas fired assets. During 2003, FPL Energy added 975 mw of wind generation and 2,929 mw of natural gas fired assets. In aggregate, 2002 and 2003 project additions contributed $82 million to 2003 net income. FPL Energys operating revenues and operating expenses for the year ended 2003 increased $561 million and $352 million, respectively, primarily driven by project additions. In addition, restructuring and impairment charges discussed above added $103 million to operating expenses in 2002. Operating revenues net of operating expenses, primarily fuel, were essentially flat in the balance of the portfolio. & nbsp;In 2003, both the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions experienced higher energy prices offset by lower generation and higher fuel costs. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 increased $13 million from the prior year reflecting an increase in unrealized gains associated with the mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges and a $17 million charge against its investment in two wind projects recorded in 2002. In addition, equity in earnings of equity method investees reflects lower gains from contract restructurings and lower earnings from a project in California, as well as lower project earnings due to higher fuel prices in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions. FPL Energys net income for the year ended 2003 also reflected higher interest expense of approximately $38 million associated with increasing average debt balances due to growth in the business partially offset by a decline in average interest rates of approximately 30 basis points compared with same period in 2002. FPL Energys net income in 2002 also included the positive effects of a $10 million insurance settlement. Over the last several years, there has been a general decline in the wholesale energy market, including deterioration in forward prices and reduced liquidity, as well as increasing credit concerns that have limited the number of counterparties with which FPL Energy does business. These market conditions have made it more difficult for FPL Energy to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices, to optimize the value of its assets and to contract the output of its plants. Any uncontracted output from the plants has been and will be sold into the market place at prevailing prices when economical. However, the major markets in which FPL Energy operates have shown modest signs of improvement during 2004. Given current market conditions, when FPL Energys existing power sales agreements expire, more of the energy produced may be sold through shorter term contracts and into competitive wholesale markets. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets are the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans or available from other competitors and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. Wholesale energy markets have experienced lower demand and lower wholesale energy margins as a result of weather and e conomic conditions and the oversupply of generation in certain regions. FPL Energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. FPL Energys 2005 earnings are subject to variability due to, among other things, operational performance, commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. FPL Energys exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the degree of contract coverage obtained for 2005. As of December 31, 2004, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2005 was as follows: Asset Class Available MW (a) % MW Under Contract Wind 2,917 98 % (b) Contracted (c) 2,170 99 % (b) Merchant: (d) NEPOOL 2,304 72 % (e) ERCOT 2,644 79 % (e) All other 1,274 8 % (e) Total portfolio 11,309 78 % (e) (a) Weighted to reflect in service dates, planned maintenance and a refueling outage at Seabrook in 2005. (b) Reflects round the clock mw under contract. (c) Includes all projects with mid to long term purchase power contracts for substantially all of their output. (d) Includes only those facilities that require active hedging. (e) Reflects on peak mw under contract. FPL Energys results are affected by natural fluctuations in weather. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, FPL Energy is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. FPL Energy actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. Substantially all of FPL Energys 2005 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of FPL FiberNet and other corporate income and expenses, such as interest income and interest expense. Corporate and Others net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $34 million, $37 million and $75 million, respectively. Results for Corporate and Other in 2004 reflect certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States as well as the resolution of other tax issues totaling approximately $30 million, partially offset by higher interest expense and the absence of gains at FPL FiberNet associated with restructuring two transactions in 2003. Corporate and Other allocates interest charges to FPL Energy based on a deemed capital structure at FPL Energy of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for projects under construction. Interest expense at Corporate and Other increased in 2004 due to allocating less interest expense to FPL E nergy as a result of the completion of a number of projects during 2003 that were previously under construction. Results from Corporate and Other for 2003 primarily reflect higher interest charges and the absence of restructuring and impairment charges recorded in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, impairment and other charges totaled $94 million after tax as a result of declines in the telecommunications market (see Note 6 2002 Corporate and Other) and reserves against certain leveraged lease investments. These charges were partially offset by a $30 million gain in 2002 from the resolution of an income tax matter. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, to pay maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, to redeem outstanding debt and preferred stock and or repurchase common stock. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. Credit ratings can affect FPL Groups, FPLs and FPL Group Capitals ability to obtain short and long term financing, the cost of such financing and the execution of their financing strategies. During 2004, the authorized common stock of FPL Group was increased 100 million sha res from 300 million to 400 million shares. Absent new investment opportunities in 2005, management expects cash to be available to FPL Group in excess of needs that are presently identified. Bank lines of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are as follows: FPL (a) FPL Group Capital Total Maturity Date (millions) $ 500 $ 1,000 $ 1,500 October 2006 1,000 1,000 2,000 October 2009 (b) $ 1,500 $ 2,000 $ 3,500 (a) Excludes a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility of a consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL. See below. (b) These facilities provide for the issuance of letters of credit of up to $1.5 billion ($750 million for FPL and $750 million for FPL Group Capital). The issuance of letters of credit is subject to the aggregate commitment under the applicable facility. These credit facilities are available to support the companies commercial paper programs and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a transmission and distribution property loss (in the case of FPL), as well as for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2004, letters of credit totaling $238 million were outstanding under FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under FPLs credit facilities. FPL Group (which guarantees payment of FPL Group Capital credit facilities) is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and FPL is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPLs credit facilities. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL were in compliance with their respective ratio. In addition, FPL Group Capital and FPL have each established an uncommitted credit facility with a bank to be used for general corporate purposes. The bank may at its discretion, upon the request of FPL Group Capital or FPL, make a short term loan or loans to FPL Group Capital or FPL in an aggregate amount determined by the bank, which is subject to change at any time. The terms of the specific borrowings under the uncommitted credit facilities, including maturity, are set at the time borrowing requests are made by FPL Group Capital or FPL. At December 31, 2004, there were no amounts outstanding for either FPL Group Capital or FPL under the uncommitted credit facilities. A consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL has established a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which expires in June 2009, to provide backup support for its commercial paper program. FPL has provided an unconditional guarantee of the payment obligations of the VIE under the credit facility, which are included in the guarantee discussion below. At December 31, 2004, the VIE had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and approximately $35 million under the commercial paper program. FPL also provides an unconditional payment guarantee of the VIEs $135 million of 2.34% senior secured notes, maturing in June 2006, which is included in the guarantee discussion below. See Note 9 FPL. At December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital had $2.0 billion (issuable by either or both of them up to such aggregate amount) of available capacity under shelf registration statements. Securities that may be issued under the FPL Group and FPL Group Capital shelf registration statements, depending on the registrant, include common stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, preferred stock, senior debt securities, preferred trust securities and related subordinated debt securities, and guarantees relating to certain of those securities. This capacity is available for, among other things, new investment opportunities. At December 31, 2004, FPL had $1.0 billion of available capacity under its shelf registration statement. Securities that may be issued under FPLs shelf registration statement include preferred stock, first mortgage bonds, preferred trust securities and related subordinated debt securities and guarantees. During 2004, FPL sold 200,000 shares of $100 par value 4 1/2% Series V preferred stock to FPL Group and issued $240 million of 5.65% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2035, FPL Group Capital sold approximately $309 million of 5 7/8% junior subordinated debentures maturing in 2044 and FPL Energy drew $34 million from a construction term credit facility. FPL Group Capitals junior subordinated debentures were purchased by an unconsolidated 100% owned finance subsidiary of FPL Group using proceeds from the March 2004 sale by that finance subsidiary of $300 million of preferred trust securities to the public and $9 million of common trust securities to FPL Group. FPL Group has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the junior subordinated debentures and the preferred trust securities. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term debt on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheets. During 2004, FPL Group Capital also repaid two variable rate term loans totaling $175 million, had $175 million of 6.875% debentures mature and reset the annual interest rate on $575 million principal amount of its debentures due February 2007 from 4.75% to 4.086%. These debentures were originally issued in February 2002 in connection with FPL Groups publicly traded equity units known as Corporate Units. The interest rate was reset as a result of FPL Group Capital remarketing approximately $554 million principal amount of these debentures. Neither FPL Group nor FPL Capital received any proceeds from the remarketing of the debentures. Subsidiaries of FPL Group also entered into several interest rate swap agreements during 2004. The swaps consisted of two variable interest rate swap agreements at FPL to protect $500 million of its outstanding 6.875% first mortgage bonds maturing in December 2005 against changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates; several variable interest rate swap agreements at FPL Group Capital to protect $200 million of its outstanding 1 7/8% debentures maturing in March 2005, $500 million of its outstanding 3 1/4% debentures maturing in 2006 and $575 million of its 4.086% debentures maturing in 2007 against changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates; and an interest rate swap agreement whereby an FPL Energy subsidiary receives LIBOR and pays a fixed rate of 3.845% on approximately $30 million of its variable rate debt in order to limit cash flow exposure. In January 2005, FPL redeemed all 250,000 shares of its $100 par value 4 1/2% preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2004 (Series A and Series V) and FPL Group Capital redeemed approximately $5 million of 7.35% bonds due 2013. In February 2005, an FPL Energy subsidiary entered into an interest rate swap to receive LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.255% to hedge approximately $4 million to $6 million through November 2007 and approximately $163 million to $173 million from November 2007 through June 2008. On February 16, 2005, FPL Group issued 9,270,090 shares of common stock in return for approximately $575 million in proceeds, upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued in connection with its Corporate Units issued in February 2002. In February 2005, subsidiaries of FPL Energy sold $365 million of 5.608% limited recourse senior secured bonds maturing in March 2024 and $100 million of 6.125% limited recourse senior secured bonds maturing in March 2019. &nbs p;See Note 14. The following provides various metrics regarding FPL Groups (including FPLs) and FPLs outstanding debt: FPL Group FPL December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Weighted average year to date interest rate (a) 5.4 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.5 % Weighted average life (years) 8.7 7.3 14.3 13.6 Year to date average of floating rate debt to total debt (a) 31 % 31 % 34 % 33 % (a) Calculations include interest rate swaps, if any. In June 2004, an indirect subsidiary of FPL Group sold a note receivable from a limited partnership of which Olympus is a general partner. Olympus is an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia. In June 2002, Adelphia, Olympus and the limited partnership filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, and the note, which was due July 1, 2002, was in default. The note receivable, which was previously recorded in other investments on FPL Groups consolidated balance sheet, was sold for its net book value of approximately $127 million, including accrued interest through the date of the commencement of the Chapter 11 proceedings, less related transaction costs which were not significant. Proceeds from the sale of the note were used to reduce FPL Group Capitals debt. FPL Groups charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. During the first quarter of 2004, FPL Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.60 to $0.62 per share. During the third quarter of 2004, FPL Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.62 to $0.68 per share. In February 2005, FPL Group announced that it would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.68 to $0.71 per share. FPL pays dividends to FPL Group in a manner consistent with FPLs long term targeted capital structure. In addition in 2002, FPL paid special dividends totaling $375 million to FPL Group. FPL Group made capital contributions in 2003 and 2002 to FPL of $600 million and $350 million, respectively. FPLs mortgage contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to FPL Group and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. On February 18, 2005, FPL Groups board of directors approved a two for one stock split of FPL Groups common stock effective March 15, 2005 (2005 stock split). FPL Groups authorized common stock will increase from 400 million to 800 million shares. After giving effect to the 2005 stock split, the subsequent quarterly dividend on FPL Groups common stock will be 35.5 cents per share. The share or per share information included in FPL Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 does not reflect the effect of the 2005 stock split. Under the mortgage securing FPLs first mortgage bonds, in some cases, the mortgage restricts the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPLs use of retained earnings. As of December 31, 2004, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage. FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPLs first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non junior FPL indebtedness. As of December 31, 2004, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2004, would have been in excess of 8.5 times the annual interest requirements and in excess of 5 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. As of December 31, 2004, FPL could have issued in excess of $5 billion of additional first mortgage bonds b ased on the unfunded property additions and in excess of $5.5 billion based on retired first mortgage bonds. As of December 31, 2004, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of debt outstanding. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL Group Capital and FPL, the maintenance of a specific minimum level of credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit facilities. However, commitment fees and interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements are tied to credit ratings and would increase or decrease when ratings are changed. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain power purchase and other agreements. FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, are regularly required to post collateral in excess of collateral threshold amounts when FPL Groups exposure to the counterparty under the applicable trading agreement exceeds such threshold. Securities of FPL Group and its subsidiaries are currently rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). At February 25, 2005, Moodys, S&P and Fitch had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys (a) S&P (a) Fitch (a) FPL Group: (b) Corporate credit rating A2 A A FPL: (c) Corporate credit rating A1 A/A 1 N/A First mortgage bonds Aa3 A AA Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds Aa3/VMIG 1 A/A 1 A+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 FPL Group Capital: (d) Corporate credit rating N/A A/A 1 N/A Debentures A2 A A Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. (b) The outlook indicated for FPL Group by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. (c) The outlook indicated for FPL by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. (d) The outlook indicated for FPL Group Capital by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is stable, negative and stable, respectively. FPL Groups commitments at December 31, 2004 were as follows: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (millions) Long term debt, including interest: (a) FPL $ 665 $ 266 $ 129 $ 323 $ 335 $ 4,291 $ 6,009 FPL Energy 219 211 516 407 122 876 2,351 Corporate and Other 816 1,300 1,186 577 666 932 5,477 Corporate Units 18 2 20 Purchase obligations: FPL (b) 5,090 3,570 2,960 2,415 2,310 7,740 24,085 FPL Energy (c) 447 55 69 52 52 734 1,409 Asset retirement activities: (d) FPL (e) 7,056 7,056 FPL Energy (f) 1 1,625 1,626 Other commitments: Corporate and Other 75 75 Total $ 7,331 $ 5,404 $ 4,860 $ 3,774 $ 3,485 $ 23,254 $ 48,108 (a) Includes principal, interest and interest rate swaps. Variable rate interest was computed using December 31, 2004 rates. (b) Represents required capacity and minimum payments under long term purchased power and fuel contracts, the majority of which is recoverable through various cost recovery clauses (see Note 16 Contracts), and projected capital expenditures through 2009 to meet increased electricity usage and customer growth, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities (see Note 16 Commitments). (c) Represents firm commitments primarily in connection with natural gas transportation, supply and storage, firm transmission service, nuclear fuel and a portion of its capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments and Contracts. (d) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. (e) At December 31, 2004, FPL had $1,971 million in restricted trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPLs nuclear units, which are included in special use funds. (f) At December 31, 2004, FPL Energys 88.23% portion of Seabrooks restricted trust fund for the payment of future expenditures to decommission Seabrook was $300 million and is included in FPL Groups special use funds. FPL Group and FPL obtain letters of credit and issue guarantees to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. At February 11, 2005, FPL Group had standby letters of credit of approximately $464 million ($16 million for FPL) and approximately $4,553 million notional amount of guarantees ($240 million for FPL), of which approximately $4,076 million ($256 million for FPL) have expirations within the next five years. These guarantees support the buying and selling of wholesale energy commodities, debt related reserves and other contractual agreements. FPL Group and FPL believe it is unlikely that they would be required to perform or otherwise incur any losses associated with these guarantees and as a result, at December 31, 2004, FPL Group and FPL did not have any liabilities recorded for these guarantees. In addition, FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including most of those under FPL Group Capitals debt, including all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its guarantees, and FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of FPL Energy and its subsidiaries. See Note 16 Commitments. In addition to the above, FPL Energy has guaranteed certain performance obligations of a power plant owned by a wholly owned subsidiary as part of a power purchase agreement that expires in 2027. Under this agreement, the subsidiary could incur market based liquidated damages for failure to meet contractual minimum outputs. In addition, certain subsidiaries of FPL Energy have contracts that require certain projects to meet annual minimum generation amounts. Failure to meet the annual minimum generation amounts would result in the FPL Energy subsidiary incurring specified liquidated damages. Based on past performance of these and similar projects and current forward prices, management believes that the exposure associated with these guarantees is not material. An FPL Energy subsidiary is committed to purchase oil and gas inventory remaining in certain storage facilities at December 31, 2005 at its weighted average cost. At December 31, 2004, the subsidiarys commitment is estimated to be from $0 to approximately $68 million, based on a potential range of zero to full storage volume at the current average forward price of oil and gas. Upon expiration of the commitment, FPL Energy expects to either negotiate a new contract or use any remaining fuel to operate the plant. During the third quarter of 2004, FPL was impacted by Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne, each of which did major damage in parts of FPLs service territory and collectively resulted in over 5.4 million customer power outages with approximately three quarters of FPLs customers losing power during at least one hurricane. Damage to FPL property was primarily to the transmission and distribution systems. Although FPL has not completed the final accounting of all restoration costs, FPL accrued restoration costs totaling approximately $890 million as of December 31, 2004. In addition, based on assessments as of December 31, 2004, FPL estimated it had sustained other property losses totaling approximately $109 million which is expected to be recovered from insurance carriers, of which $20 million has been advanced and the remaining $89 million is included in other current assets on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. During the fourth quarter of 2004, all available funds were withdrawn from the storm fund to pay for storm costs. At December 31, 2004, approximately $352 million was accrued and included in other current liabilities on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2004, storm costs expected to be recoverable from customers exceeded the balance of the storm reserve by approximately $536 million. This deficiency has been deferred pursuant to an FPSC order and recorded as a regulatory asset on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets. During February 2005, pursuant to an FPSC order, FPL began recovering storm restoration costs from customers, subject to refund, pending the outcome of a hearing in April 2005 to determine the amount of storm restoration costs that FPL will be allowed to recover from customers. FPL Group received a $73 million federal tax refund in the fourth quarter of 2004 as a result of casualty losses associated with the hurricanes. &nbs p;In addition, restoration costs associated with the hurricanes have created a tax loss in 2004, which deferred the utilization of tax credits. See Note 4. FPLs bank lines of credit discussed above are also available if needed to provide additional liquidity for storm restoration costs. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which was subsequently revised. See Note 9. Other Postretirement Benefits In May 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 106 2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003." See Note 2. Stock Based Compensation Beginning July 1, 2005, FPL will be required to adopt FAS 123(R), "Share Based Payment." See Note 1 Stock Based Compensation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to exercise judgment and make estimates and assumptions where amounts are not subject to precise measurement or are dependent on future events. Critical accounting policies and estimates, which are important to the portrayal of both FPL Groups and FPLs financial condition and results of operations and which require complex, subjective judgments are as follows: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity contracts, optimize the value of power generation assets and related contracts and manage risks associated with changes in interest rates. To a lesser extent, FPL Group also engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected favorable price movements. These accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity and fuel. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. The near term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel and capacity clauses. In non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in derivative fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless the criteria for hedge accounting are met and the company elects to account for the derivative as a hedge. For those transactions accounted for as cash flow hed ges, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of common shareholders equity, rather than being recognized in current earnings. For those transactions accounted for as fair value hedges the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in current earnings offset by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. Since FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and, from time to time, issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133. In particular, much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from the provisions of FAS 133. Despite the large volume of implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance does not provide specific guidance on all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations. The interpretation of FAS 133 continues to evolve. A result of changes in interpretation could be that contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of FAS 133 would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. During the fourth quarter of 2003, FPL Group and its subsidiaries adopted EITF 03 11, which precluded certain economic hedging transactions at FPL Energy from qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in fair value of those transactions are now marked to market and reported in the non qualifying hedge category and may result in more volatility in the non qualifying hedge category in the future. The ongoing changes in accounting guidance relating to derivatives confirm managements belief in the importance of segregating the effects of the unrealized mark to market impact of non qualifying hedges. Without any change in FPL Groups economic positions or the timing or amounts of future cash flows, a small change in classification of particular transactions can result in significant changes in net income. This could be significant to FPL Energys results because often the economic offset to the positions which are required to be marked to market (such as the p hysical assets from which power is generated) are not marked to market. As a consequence, net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically linked transactions. Because of this, FPL Groups management continues to view results expressed excluding the unrealized mark to market impact of the non qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3. Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits FPL Group sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries. FPL Group also has a non qualified supplemental defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits to higher level employees. In addition to pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a substantially contributory postretirement plan for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits) for retirees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility requirements. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing the benefits under the plan. The other benefits plan has a partially funded trust dedicated to providing benefits related to life insurance. FPL Groups pension income net of the cost of other benefits was approximately $81 million, $78 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $63 million, $60 million and $70 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of other benefits are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years, assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4.0% for 2004, 4.5% for 2003 and 5.5% for 2002, and a weighted average discount rate of 5.50%, 6.00% and 6.25% for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Based on current health care costs, the projected 2005 trend assumption used to measure the expected cost of health care benefits covered by the other benefits plan is 9.0%. The rate is assumed to decrease over the next eight years to the ultimate trend rate of 5.0% and remain at that level thereafter. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the market place. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year historical median returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds. FPL Group also considered its funds historical compounded returns. FPL Group believes that 7.75% is a reasonable long term rate of return on its plans assets. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market re lated value of assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% (from 7.75% to 7.25%) would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $14 million ($12 million for FPL). Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $6 million ($5 million for FPL). Raising the salary increase assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2004 by approximately $2 million ($2 million for FPL). Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for postretirement plans providing health care benefits. An increase or decrease of 1% in assumed health care cost trend rates would have a corresponding effect on the service and interest cost components and the accumulated obligation of other benefits of approximately $1 million and $8 million, respectively. The fair value of plan assets has increased from $2.7 billion at September 30, 2003 to $2.9 billion at September 30, 2004 for the pension plan and decreased from $54 million at September 30, 2003 to $50 million at September 30, 2004 for other benefits. Management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. In December 2004, $21 million was transferred from the qualified pension plan as reimbursement for eligible retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group during the year pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. FPL Group anticipates paying approximately $28 million for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the other benefits plan during 2005 with substantially all of that amount being reimbursed through a transfer of assets from the qualified pension plan pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. See Note 2. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Under that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. The most recent studies, which became effective May 2002, indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is $6.4 billion, or $2.2 billion in 2004 dollars. FPL plans to file updated nuclear decommissioning studies in 2005. Beginning January 1, 2003, FPL began recognizing nuclear decommissioning liabilities in accordance with FAS 143, which requires that a liability for the fair value of an asset retirement obligation (ARO) be recognized in the period in which it is incurred with the offsetting associated asset retirement cost capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset. At December 31, 2004, $2,224 million was accr ued for nuclear decommissioning, of which $2,013 million was recorded as an ARO, $214 million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $267 million was recorded as a regulatory liability and $158 million was included in accrued asset removal costs on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC at least every four years. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies, which became effective January 1, 2003, indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $668 million. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered an ARO under FAS 143. At December 31, 2004, the provision for fossil dismantlement was approximately $291 million and is included in accrued asset removal costs. FPL Energy records a liability for the present value of Seabrooks expected decommissioning costs in accordance with FAS 143. Comprehensive studies are filed with the New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee every four years, with updates provided annually. These studies indicate that FPL Energys 88.23% portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning Seabrook, including costs associated with spent fuel storage, is approximately $1,496 million, or $578 million in 2004 dollars. At December 31, 2004, the ARO for Seabrooks nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $175 million. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves the use of estimates and judgments concerning the amount and timing of future expenditures and whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation under FAS 143. FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate, rate of return and inflation projections to determine funding requirements related to decommissioning. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update their estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Regulatory Accounting FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of FAS 71 is assessed at each reporting period. FPLs regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: December 31, 2004 2003 (millions) Regulatory assets: Current: Deferred clause and franchise expenses $ 230 $ 348 Storm reserve deficiency $ 163 $ Derivatives $ 9 $ Noncurrent: Storm reserve deficiency $ 373 $ Unamortized loss on reacquired debt $ 45 $ 48 Litigation settlement $ 45 $ 89 Other $ 38 $ 22 Regulatory liabilities: Current: Deferred clause and franchise revenues $ 30 $ 48 Derivatives $ $ 93 Noncurrent: Accrued asset removal costs $ 2,012 $ 1,902 Storm and property insurance reserve $ $ 327 Asset retirement obligation regulatory expense difference $ 266 $ 180 Unamortized investment tax credits $ 81 $ 100 Other $ 106 $ 160 See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily forward purchases and sales, swaps, options and futures) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity transactions, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Energy engages in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability (in derivative assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities) measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause and the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, essentially all changes in the derivatives fair value for power purchases and sales and trading activities are recognized net in operating revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized net in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. See Note 3. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups consolidated subsidiaries energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: Hedges on Owned Assets Proprietary Trading Managed Non Qualifying OCI FPL Cost Recovery Clauses FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 $ 4 $ $ 8 $ 28 $ 12 $ 52 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (9) (1 ) 12 (57 ) (3 ) (58 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 18 18 Changes in valuation assumptions 2 2 (a) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 12 2 (1 ) 85 98 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003 7 1 21 (11 ) 94 112 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (15 ) (2 ) (60 ) 1 (223 ) (299 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (99 ) (99 ) Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (7 ) (7 ) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 14 (1 ) 36 120 169 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004 6 (2 ) (10 ) (109 ) (9 ) (124 ) Net option premium payments (receipts) 31 31 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2004 $ 6 $ (2 ) $ (10 ) $ (109 ) $ 22 $ (93 ) (a) Change in valuation assumption from applying volatility skewness (selection of an input assumption among alternatives based on the projected moneyness of the option) in option valuation. FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2004 shown above are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: December 31, 2004 (millions) Derivative assets $ 107 Other assets 24 Other current liabilities (114 ) Other liabilities (110 ) FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (93 ) The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2004 were as follows: Maturity 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (millions) Proprietary Trading: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices $ (12 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ (14 ) Prices provided by other external sources 21 2 1 1 25 Modeled (6 ) 1 (5 ) Total 3 1 1 1 6 Owned Assets Managed: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (6 ) (6 ) Prices provided by other external sources 4 4 Modeled Total (2 ) (2 ) Owned Assets Non Qualifying: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices 3 1 4 Prices provided by other external sources 5 (2 ) (1 ) 2 Modeled 5 (5 ) (3 ) (3 ) (3 ) (7 ) (16 ) Total 13 (6 ) (4 ) (3 ) (3 ) (7 ) (10 ) Owned Assets OCI: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (2 ) (2 ) Prices provided by other external sources (30 ) (27 ) (25 ) (4 ) (86 ) Modeled (11 ) (4 ) (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) (21 ) Total (43 ) (31 ) (28 ) (6 ) (1 ) (109 ) Owned Assets FPL Cost Recovery Clauses: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (8 ) (8 ) Prices provided by other external sources (1 ) (1 ) Modeled Total (9 ) (9 ) Total sources of fair value $ (38 ) $ (37 ) $ (32 ) $ (8 ) $ (3 ) $ (6 ) $ (124 ) Market Risk Sensitivity Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group and FPL manage their interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates and adjusting their variable rat e debt in relation to total capitalization. FPL Group and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. FPL Group manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. FPL Groups credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading and Managed Hedges Non Qualifying Hedges and Hedges in OCI (a) Total FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2003 $ $ $ $ 25 $ 5 $ 26 $ 25 $ 4 $ 26 December 31, 2004 $ $ $ $ 55 $ 12 $ 48 $ 55 $ 15 $ 47 Average for the period ended December 31, 2004 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 29 $ 6 $ 25 $ 29 $ 8 $ 25 (a) Non qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non qualifying hedges and hedges in OCI category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. Interest rate risk FPL Group and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their issuances of debt, investments in special use funds and interest rate swaps. FPL Group and FPL manage their interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates and adjusting their variable rate debt in relation to total capitalization. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPL Groups and FPLs financial instruments: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value FPL Group: (millions) Long term debt, including current maturities $ 9,247 $ 9,611 (a) $ 9,090 $ 9,548 (a) Fixed income securities: Special use funds $ 1,219 $ 1,219 (b) $ 1,316 $ 1,316 (b) Other investments $ 72 $ 72 (b) $ 57 $ 57 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ (11 ) $ (11 )(c) $ (10 ) $ (10 )(c) FPL: Long term debt, including current maturities $ 3,311 $ 3,438 (a) $ 3,074 $ 3,193 (a) Fixed income securities: Special use funds $ 1,081 $ 1,081 (b) $ 1,188 1,188 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ (2 ) $ (2 )(c) $ $ (a) Based on market prices provided by external sources. (b) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. (c) Based on market prices modeled internally. The special use funds of FPL Group include restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. At December 31, 2004, the special use funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL were fully utilized. A portion of the special use funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer t erm securities, as decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012. See Note 10. FPL Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to adjust and mitigate interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. At December 31, 2004, the estimated fair value for FPL Group interest rate swaps was as follows: Notional Amount Effective Date Maturity Date Rate Paid Rate Received Estimated Fair Value (millions) (millions) Fair value hedges FPL: $ 250 April 2004 December 2005 variable (a) 6.875 % $ (1 ) $ 250 May 2004 December 2005 variable (b) 6.875 % (1 ) Fair value hedges FPL Group Capital: $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (c) 7.625 % (3 ) $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (d) 7.625 % (3 ) $ 200 January 2004 March 2005 variable (e) 1.875 % (1 ) $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (f) 3.250 % (1 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (g) 3.250 % $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (h) 3.250 % (1 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (i) 3.250 % $ 300 November 2004 February 2007 variable (j) 4.086 % $ 275 December 2004 February 2007 variable (k) 4.086 % 1 Total fair value hedges (10 ) Cash flow hedges FPL Energy: $ 96 July 2002 December 2007 4.41 % variable (l) (2 ) $ 195 August 2003 November 2007 3.557 % variable (l) $ 92 December 2003 December 2017 4.245 % variable (l) $ 30 April 2004 December 2017 3.845 % Variable (l) 1 Total cash flow hedges (1 ) Total interest rate hedges $ (11 ) (a) Six month LIBOR plus 3.7285% (b) Six month LIBOR plus 3.6800% (c) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9900% (d) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9925% (e) Six month LIBOR less 0.1375% (f) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0153% (g) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0100% (h) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1500% (i) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1525% (j) Three month LIBOR plus 0.50577% (k) Three month LIBOR plus 0.4025% (l) Three month LIBOR Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of FPL Groups net liabilities would increase by approximately $203 million ($90 million for FPL) at December 31, 2004. Equity price risk Included in the special use funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $1,051 million and $926 million ($890 million and $781 million for FPL) at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $105 million ($89 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL, or adjustments to OCI for FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, at December 31, 2004. Credit risk For all derivative and contractual transactions, FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations, which includes FPLs energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Relevant considerations when assessing FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations credit risk exposure include: Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the United States. Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies. Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of cash collateral. The use of master netting agreements to offset cash and non cash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. FPL Groups policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. Based on FPL Groups policies and risk exposures related to credit, FPL Group and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial positions as a result of counterparty nonperformance. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 99% of FPL Groups and 96% of FPLs energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have at least investment grade credit ratings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 
 
