Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MAPP Mid Continent Area Power Pool mortgage mortgage and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, from FPL to Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as supplemented and amended mw megawatt(s) NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Council Note note to consolidated financial statements NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Policy Act Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 NYPP New York Power Pool O&M expenses other operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income PJM PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. PMI FPL Energy Power Marketing, Inc. PTC production tax credits PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended qualifying facilities non utility power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying facility under the PURPA RFC ReliabilityFirst Corporation RFP request for proposal ROE return on common equity RTO regional transmission organization Seabrook Seabrook Station SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SERC Southeastern Electric Reliability Council SPP Southwest Power Pool VIE variable interest entity WECC Western Electricity Coordinating Council FPL Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and FPL Energy each have subsidiaries and affiliates with names that include FPL, FPL Energy, FPLE and similar references. For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms FPL Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and FPL Energy are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific subsidiaries, affiliates or groups of subsidiaries or affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page No. Definitions 2 Forward Looking Statements 3 PART I Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 23 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Overview FPL Group is one of the nations largest providers of electricity related services. Its principal subsidiary, FPL, serves more than eight million people throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. FPL Energy, FPL Groups competitive energy subsidiary, produces electricity primarily utilizing natural gas, wind and nuclear resources. Together, FPLs and FPL Energys generating assets represented approximately 32,800 mw of capacity at December 31, 2005. FPL FiberNet provides fiber optic services to FPL, telecommunications companies and other customers throughout Florida. In December 2005, FPL Group entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Constellation Energy. The combined company is expected to be the nations largest competitive energy supplier based on generation and have the second largest electric utility portfolio based on the number of customers served. Completion of the merger and the actual closing d ate depend upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including shareholder approvals and the receipt of required regulatory approvals. The parties believe that the proposed merger will offer both strategic and financial advantages in serving the energy marketplace, as well as generate significant cost savings and synergies, the majority of which are expected to come from the competitive energy businesses. These synergies are expected to result from consolidation of competitive energy business unit operations, sharing of best practices, improved procurement strategies and consolidation of systems and support activities. See Note 2. FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the retail sale of electricity. In August 2005, FPL and all of the interveners in its 2005 rate case filing signed a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which was subsequently approved by the FPSC. The 2005 rate agreement will be in effect through December 31, 2009, and thereafter shall remain in effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an FPSC order. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates. Over the last 10 years, FPLs average annual customer growth has been 2.2% while underlying usage growth has been 0.6%. FPL is meeting the increased demands of its customers by adding to its generation capacity and electric transmission and distribution infrastructure. FPL plans to add approximately 1,150 mw of combined cycle generating capacity by 2007 at a total investment of approximately $580 million. FPLs O&M expenses increased in 2005 reflecting continued upward trends in nuclear maintenance and employee related costs, as well as increased maintenance costs for fossil generation plants due to a number of FPLs older units going through major overhauls. These same factors, along with costs associated with enhancing FPLs transmission and distribution system and uncollectible accounts, are expected to increase O&M expenses in 2006. FPLs business strategy is to meet the increased demands of customer growth and focus on improving operating performance. FPL Energy is in the competitive energy business with the majority of its operating revenues derived from wholesale electricity sales. Its market is diversified by region as well as by fuel source. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 86% of FPL Energys expected 2006 capacity was hedged against commodity price volatility. If FPL Energys plants do not perform as expected, this high degree of hedging could result in FPL Energy being required to purchase power, including transportation, in the market at potentially higher prices to meet its contractual obligations. FPL Energys energy marketing and trading business is focused on reducing risk and extracting maximum value from its assets. FPL Energy, through its subsidiaries, is one of the largest producers of wind energy in the world, and with the extension of the production tax credit program through December 2007, plans to continue expanding its wind portfolio in 2006 and 2007 through construction of new facilities and selective acquisitions. FPL Energys business strategy is to maximize the value of its current portfolio, expand its U.S. market leading wind position and build its portfolio through asset acquisitions. Results of Operations Summary FPL Groups net income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $885 million, $887 million and $890 million, respectively. See Note 17 for segment information. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 reflects slightly reduced earnings at FPL and higher interest expense at Corporate and Other, partially offset by improved results at FPL Energy. FPLs 2005 results reflect strong customer growth and increased usage per retail customer despite the impact of increased hurricane activity in 2005 versus 2004, which were more than offset by higher O&M expenses, depreciation and amortization and interest charges. FPL Energys 2005 results improved primarily due to improved market conditions in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions and the favorable effects of contract restructuring activities and asset sales, as well as the addition of new wind projects partially offset by higher interest expense. In addit ion, FPL Groups and FPL Energys net income for 2005 reflect unrealized losses from non qualifying hedges of $112 million while 2004 net income reflects unrealized losses of $3 million. The increase in unrealized mark to market losses associated with non qualifying hedge activity for 2005 is primarily attributable to increased forward power and natural gas prices, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark to market gains as the underlying transactions were realized during this period. As a general rule, a loss in the non qualifying hedge category is offset by increases in the fair value of physical asset positions in the portfolio, which are not marked to market under generally accepted accounting principles. That is, the same factors that affected the decline in value of the hedges in general also increase the future value of nearly all of FPL Energys merchant assets. Results for Corporate and Other in 2005 reflect approximately $25 millio n in certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States, more than offset by higher interest expense and the absence of the effect of a prior year resolution of various tax issues. FPL Groups net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflects reduced earnings at FPL Energy partially offset by improved results at FPL. At Corporate and Other, the impact of the favorable resolution of certain tax issues was partially offset by higher interest expense. FPLs 2004 results improved as a result of strong customer growth and the settlement of shareholder litigation initiated in 2002 and 2003, but were partially offset by the impacts of three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory during the third quarter of 2004, as well as lower customer usage due to overall milder weather. FPL Energys 2004 results decreased due to the effect of restructuring activities during 2004 compared to 2003 and higher interest expense pa rtially offset by increased earnings from its existing portfolio as well as project additions. In addition, FPL Groups and FPL Energys net income for 2004 reflect unrealized losses from non qualifying hedges of $3 million while 2003 net income reflects unrealized gains of $22 million and a $3 million charge due to a change in accounting principle. FPL Groups effective tax rate for all periods presented reflect production tax credits for wind projects at FPL Energy. PTCs can significantly affect FPL Groups effective tax rate depending on the amount of pre tax income and wind generation. See Note 1 Income Taxes and Note 5. FPL Group and its subsidiaries segregate unrealized mark to market gains and losses on derivative transactions into two categories. The first category, referred to as trading and managed hedge activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The second category, referred to as non qualifying hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges (but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended) and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. These derivative transactions have been entered into to reduce FPL Groups aggregate risk. FPL Groups management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings), which in 2005 and 2004 were the mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges, internally for financial planning, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and for FPL Groups employee incentive compensation plans. FPL Group also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. FPL Groups management believes adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the companys fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded items are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, both the size and nature of such items can make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. FPL FPLs net income available to FPL Group for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $748 million, $749 million and $733 million, respectively. During 2005, FPLs net income benefited from strong customer growth and increased customer usage due to overall improved weather conditions. However, the impact of increased hurricane activity, higher depreciation and amortization expense and increased O&M and interest expenses more than offset these benefits. During 2004, FPLs net income benefited from strong customer growth, underlying customer usage growth and lower O&M expenses, including reduced expenses associated with the settlement of shareholder litigation. In addition, AFUDC, primarily equity funds, increased during 2004 reflecting higher plant balances under construction. However, the effect of milder weather as compared to 2003, the impact of three hurricanes and higher depreciation and amortization expense partially offset these benefits. & nbsp; In August 2005, FPL and all of the interveners in its 2005 rate case filing signed a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding FPLs retail base rates, which was subsequently approved by the FPSC. The 2005 rate agreement will be in effect through December 31, 2009, and thereafter shall remain in effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an FPSC order. The 2005 rate agreement replaced a rate agreement that was effective April 15, 2002 through December 31, 2005. The 2005 rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any power plant approved pursuant to the Siting Act that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. The 2005 rate agreement also continues the revenue sharing mechanism in FPLs 2002 rate agreement, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of two thirds refunded to customers and one third retained by FPL. Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second, higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers. The revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2006 will be $3,991 million and $4,156 million, respectively, which was established by using the 2005 revenue sharing threshold and cap of $3,880 million and $4,040 million, respectively, and increasing them by the average annual growth rate in reta il kwh sales for the ten year period ending December 31, 2005. For each succeeding year, retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap amounts will be established by increasing the prior years threshold and cap by the sum of the following: (i) the average annual growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten year period ending December 31 of the preceding year multiplied by the prior years retail base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any incremental base rate increases for power plants approved pursuant to the Siting Act that achieve commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. Under the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) FPLs electric property depreciation rates will be based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the FPSC in March 2005; however, FPL may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million annually, (ii) FPL suspended contributions of approximately $79 million per year to its nuclear decommissioning fund beginning in September 2005, (iii) FPL suspended contributions of $20.3 million per year to its storm and property insurance reserve beginning in January 2006 and has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm restoration costs, either through securitization pursuant to Section 366.8260 of the Florida Statutes or through surcharges, and (iv) FPL will be allowed to recover through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated with complying with an FPSC or FERC order regarding a regional transmission organization. FPL will not have an authorized regulatory ROE under the 2005 rate agreement for the purpose of addressing earnings levels. For all other regulatory purposes, FPL will have an ROE of 11.75%. The revenue sharing mechanism described above will be the appropriate and exclusive mechanism to address earnings levels. However, if FPLs regulatory ROE, as reported to the FPSC in FPLs monthly earnings surveillance report, falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL may petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. The 2002 rate agreement provided for a $250 million annual reduction in retail base revenues allocated to all customers by reducing customers base rates and service charges by approximately 7%, as well as a revenue sharing mechanism based on stated thresholds. During the term of the 2002 rate agreement, FPL did not have an authorized regulatory ROE range for the purpose of addressing earnings levels and FPL reduced depreciation on its plant in service by $125 million each year. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (millions) Retail base operations $ 3,658 $ 3,548 $ 3,560 Revenue refund provision (3 ) Cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs 5,651 4,999 4,558 Other, primarily gas, transmission and wholesale sales and customer related fees 219 187 178 Total $ 9,528 $ 8,734 $ 8,293 The increase in retail base revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to an increase in the average number of customer accounts as well as an increase in usage per retail customer. A 2.3% increase in the average number of customer accounts during 2005 increased revenue from retail base operations by approximately $82 million while the balance of the increase, or $28 million, was primarily due to a 0.5% increase in usage per retail customer. The majority of the growth in usage was due to the effects of overall improved weather conditions which was partially offset by increased hurricane activity in 2005 that caused customer service interruptions throughout FPLs service territory. The 2005 hurricanes resulted in lost revenues of approximately $52 million. The decrease in retail base revenues in 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in usage per retail customer, partially offset by a 2.6% increase in the average number of customer accounts. A 2.7% decrease in usage per retail customer resulted in a decrease in revenues from retail base operations of approximately $100 million, primarily due to milder weather and customer service interruptions during the three hurricanes that struck FPLs service territory. The increase in the average number of customer accounts, as well as other factors, increased revenues from retail base operations by approximately $88 million. The 2004 hurricanes resulted in lost revenues of approximately $38 million. Revenues from cost recovery clauses and other pass through costs, such as franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm cost recoveries do not significantly affect net income; however, under or over recovery of such costs can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in these revenues, as well as in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges. Ordinarily, the fuel charge is set annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage, plus or minus a true up for prior period estimates. Effective January 1, 2003, the FPSC approved a risk management fuel procurement program, which is intended to reduce the risk of unexpected fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPLs fuel requirements. The results of the program are reviewed by the FPSC as part of the annual review of fuel costs. Revenues from cost recove ry clauses and other pass through costs increased effective January 1, 2005, primarily as a result of additional fuel clause revenues due to an increase of approximately 6% in the fuel clause recovery factor as a result of higher fuel prices. The effect of higher fuel prices also was the primary contributor to the $872 million increase in deferred clause and franchise expenses (current and noncurrent, collectively) on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2005, and negatively affected FPL Groups and FPLs cash flows from operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. In February 2005, FPL began recovering the 2004 storm restoration cost deficiency from retail customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the amount billed to customers related to these storm restoration cost recoveries amounted to approximately $155 million and the corresponding expense for the amortization of the storm reserve deficiency is shown as a separate line on the consolidated statements of income. For further discussion, see Note 1 Storm Reserve Deficiency. FPLs O&M expenses increased approximately $79 million in 2005 primarily due to higher employee benefits expenses of approximately $28 million, higher nuclear maintenance costs of approximately $19 million and higher fossil generation costs of approximately $18 million, as well as the absence of a $21 million settlement related to shareholder litigation which reduced O&M expenses in 2004. In addition, part of the O&M expense increase relates to approximately $17 million of expenses associated with increased nuclear security costs which are recovered through the capacity clause. The overall increase in O&M expenses was partially offset by a reversal of a prior year reserve of approximately $15 million related to 2004 storm costs that were subsequently determined to be recoverable pursuant to a 2005 FPSC order. Increased employee benefits expenses are primarily associated with the absence of a pension transition credit that was fully amortized by the end of 2004 and higher employee costs. The increase in fossil generation expense relates primarily to the introduction of the Martin and Manatee expansion as well as timing of overhaul maintenance at some of the older generating units. Management expects to see a continued upward trend in O&M expenses for 2006, primarily driven by nuclear maintenance, uncollectible accounts as a result of higher customer bills primarily related to fuel charges and employee related costs, as well as costs associated with enhancing FPLs transmission and distribution system as part of its Storm Secure Plan and an increase in maintenance costs for fossil generation plants as major overhauls continue for a number of older generating units. Partly offsetting the increased costs is the suspension of contributions to the storm and property insurance reserve as specified in the 2005 rate agreement. In conjunction with an NRC order, FPL has performed visual and volumetric inspections of its nuclear units reactor vessel heads during their scheduled refueling outages since October 2002. FPL replaced the reactor vessel heads at Turkey Point Unit No. 3, Turkey Point Unit No. 4 and St. Lucie Unit No. 1 during their scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2004, spring of 2005 and fall of 2005, respectively, and therefore no further inspections will be required at these units until 2009. The inspections during scheduled refueling outages at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 revealed CRDM nozzles with cracks, which were repaired during the outages in 2003 and 2005. It is anticipated that additional CRDM nozzle repairs will be needed at St. Lucie Unit No. 2s next scheduled outage scheduled for the spring of 2006. FPL intends to replace the reactor vessel head at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. The estimated remaining cost to rep lace St. Lucie Unit No. 2s reactor vessel head, including AFUDC, is approximately $67 million and is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. The cost of performing inspections and any necessary repairs to the reactor vessel heads until they are replaced is being recognized as expense on a levelized basis over a five year period beginning in 2002, as authorized by the FPSC, and amounted to approximately $11 million in 2005, $10 million in 2004 and $13 million in 2003. St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generators are reaching the end of their useful life. As flaws are identified in individual tubes, they are plugged in order to prevent the tubes from leaking during plant operations. To date, 18.9% of these tubes have been plugged. In January 2005, FPL received permission from the NRC to plug up to 30% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generator tubes. Current projections indicate that the 30% tube plugging limit could be exceeded during St. Lucie Unit No. 2s next scheduled refueling outage in the spring of 2006. FPL is planning to repair any tubes exceeding the 30% tube plugging limit by inserting metal sleeves inside the degraded tubes (sleeving) and has requested NRC approval to sleeve degraded tubes as an alternative to plugging. Sleeving degraded tubes is expected to increase the cost and length of the outage. Costs accrued in 2005 associated with sleeving are reflected in the nuclear maintenance co sts discussed above. FPL intends to replace the steam generators along with the reactor vessel head at St. Lucie Unit No. 2 during its fall 2007 scheduled refueling outage. The remaining cost to replace St. Lucie Unit No. 2s steam generators, including AFUDC, is approximately $200 million and is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. In conjunction with a 2004 NRC bulletin, FPL must perform inspections of all alloy 600 and weld materials in pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping. Due to the amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, FPL replaced St. Lucie Unit No. 1s pressurizer during its fall 2005 outage and plans to repair St. Lucie Unit No. 2s pressurizer heater sleeves and other penetrations during its scheduled refueling and steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement outage in the fall of 2007. The estimated cost is included in FPLs estimated capital expenditures. See Note 16 Commitments. Since the 2004 NRC bulletin was issued, no leaks have been identified based on inspections at St. Lucie Unit No. 2. All pressurizer penetrations and welds at Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 utilize a different material. In 2004, O&M expenses decreased $22 million primarily reflecting the receipt of approximately $21 million associated with the settlement of the shareholder litigation. The settlement was offset by higher nuclear maintenance costs of approximately $10 million, higher insurance costs of approximately $8 million and an increase in the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable of approximately $8 million in connection with the hurricanes. The remainder of the fluctuation in the 2004 O&M expenses was primarily due to the absence of certain legal expenses recorded in 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2005, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $36 million of which approximately $23 million related to the addition of two new generating units at FPLs existing Martin and Manatee power plant sites, which became operational on June 30, 2005. The remainder of the increase is primarily due to FPLs continued investment in transmission and distribution expansion to support customer growth and demand. FPL expects to place an additional approximately 1,150 mw generating unit into service at its Turkey Point site by mid 2007. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was partially offset by the suspension, in September 2005, of FPLs nuclear decommissioning accrual which totaled approximately $79 million annually. In addition, beginning in 2006, depreciation and amortization expense will also benefit from lower depreciation and decommissioning rates approved as part of the 2005 rate agreement reflecting m ainly the 20 year license extensions received for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 increased by $17 million, reflecting continued growth of electric utility plant in service to help meet increasing customer demand. Interest charges for 2005 and 2004 increased primarily due to an increase of approximately 30 basis points and 40 basis points, respectively, in average interest rates and higher average debt balances used to fund increased investment in generation, transmission and distribution expansion and to pay for storm restoration costs. Interest income, included in other net in FPLs consolidated statements of income, increased in 2005 by approximately $14 million primarily due to interest accrued on the unrecovered balance of the storm reserve deficiency and on deferred costs associated with nuclear security as approved by the FPSC. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. In 2005, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. Such a regulatory restructuring, if enacted in Florida, would most likely result in a shift from cost based rates to market based rates for energy production and other services provided to retail customers. Although the legislation and initiatives in other states vary substantially, common areas of focus include when market based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market based price will be recoverable and whether generating assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. It is generally believed that transmission and distribution activities would remain regulated. Within the last few years, these state restructuring efforts have diminished, and several states have delayed the implementation or reversed previously approved restructuring legislation and rules. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in Florida in the near future. If the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recov erability in a changed regulatory environment. See Note 1 Regulation. The FPSC promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an RFP. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the needed generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and or operating generation capacity of the type proposed, the investor owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidders generation capacity. In August 2005, FPL issued part one of a two part RFP for additional power resources beginning in 2009. FPLs self build approach calls for building two approximately 1,200 mw natural gas fired combined cycle units in western Palm Beach County, Florida that would be operational in 2009 and 2010. In January 2006, after evaluating alternative proposals, FPL concluded that its self build approach is the most cost effective alternative to satisfy the need for additional power resources in 2009 and 2010. FPL plans to issue part two of this RFP in 2006 soliciting competitive bids for additional power resources beginning in 2012. FPLs self build approach calls for building two approximately 850 mw advanced technology coal generating units that would be operational in 2012 and 2013. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 1999, the FERC issued its final order on RTOs which, under a variety of structures, provides for the independent operation of transmission systems for a given geographic area. In early 2001, the FERC approved GridFlorida (FPLs, Progress Energy Florida, Inc.s and Tampa Electric Companys proposed RTO) as the RTO for peninsular Florida. In late 2001, the FPSC determined that the RTO as proposed was not in the best interest of Florida customers and required the companies to develop a modified proposal. In early 2002, FPL, Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company filed a modified RTO proposal with the FPSC changing the structure of GridFlorida from a for profit transmission company to a non profit ISO. In late 2002, the FPSC approved many of the aspects of the modified RTO proposal, administratively approving recovery of GridFlorida s incremental costs through the capacity clause. During 2004, the FPSC held workshops to address additional GridFlorida issues. In 2005, an independent consulting firm performed a cost benefit analysis of GridFlorida and concluded that GridFlorida would not be cost effective for the retail customers of the GridFlorida participants. In January 2006, FPL and the other GridFlorida participants petitioned the FPSC to approve the withdrawal of the GridFlorida proposal. FPL Energy FPL Energys net income for 2005, 2004, and 2003 was $187 million, $172 million and $194 million, respectively, and included net unrealized mark to market gains (losses) on non qualifying hedges of approximately $(112) million, $(3) million and $22 million, respectively. For further discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 4. In 2005, net income benefited from improved results of the existing portfolio primarily reflecting improved market conditions and higher prices in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions, as well as the favorable effects of contract restructurings, asset sales and the addition of new projects, primarily wind, partially offset by higher interest expense and lost revenues related to the planned Seabrook outage in 2005. FPL Energys net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased primarily as a result of approximately $50 million of higher net losses associated with restructuring activities and higher interest expense, partially offset by the addition of new projects, primarily wind, and improved results of the existing portfolio primarily due to improved market conditions, particularly in the NEPOOL region, and the absence of an outage at Seabrook that affected 2003 results. FPL Energy added over 1,300 mw of gas fired, wind and solar generation since late 2004 which added approximately $29 million to net income. This contribution was partially offset by losses associated with Gexa, a retail electric provider in Texas acquired in June 2005. The net effect of these additions resulted in a net increase to 2005 net income of approximately $14 million. FPL Energys operating revenues increased $516 million in 2005 primarily driven by improved market conditions mainly in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions, project additions and improved hydro resources, partially offset by higher unrealized mark to market losses from non qualifying hedge activity, lower generation at Seabrook due to its scheduled spring 2005 refueling outage and reduced wind resource. Operating expenses increased $552 million in 2005 primarily driven by increased fuel prices and generation in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions as well as by project additions which also resulted in highe r O&M and depreciation and amortization expenses. The increase in operating expenses was partially offset by higher unrealized mark to market gains from non qualifying hedge activity. Included in operating expenses in 2004 are charges of approximately $81 million associated with the restructuring of the Marcus Hook steam contract discussed below. FPL Energy expects O&M expenses to increase in 2006, primarily related to costs associated with project additions and plant maintenance. In 2005, earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures, presented as equity in earnings of equity method investees, increased $30 million primarily due to the positive effects of prior contract restructurings partially offset by lower gains from non qualifying hedge activity. For the year ended December 31, 2005, FPL Energys net income also reflected higher interest expense of $43 million associated with increased average debt balances due to growth in its asset base, as well as a 56 basis point increase in average interest rates. In addition, interest income increased by approximately $10 million in 2005 primarily related to higher investment income associated with the Seabrook decommissioning fund balance as well as interest income associated with a bridge loan, which was originated early in 2005 in connection with an acquisition of a solar project and repaid in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, other net in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income includes approximately $43 million of pre tax gains on the sale of joint venture projects in California and a $12 million pre tax benefit associated with obtaining an additional partnership interest in a coal plant in California. PTCs from FPL Energys wind projects are reflected in FPL Energys earnings. PTCs are recognized as wind energy is generated based upon a per kwh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes, and amounted to approximately $129 million and $109 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. FPL Energys 2004 net income benefited from the full year effect of 3,904 mw of wind and fossil generation added during 2003 and 39 mw of wind generation added during 2004. In aggregate, these project additions added approximately $30 million to 2004 net income. FPL Energys operating revenues increased $453 million primarily driven by project additions, the commencement of a contract for the sale of the remaining 50% of the capacity of a natural gas fired facility in Alabama, lack of a refueling outage at the Seabrook facility, improvements in the NEPOOL region aided by higher gas prices and volatility in the oil gas price ratio and increased generation in the ERCOT region due to improved market conditions. Operating expenses increased $482 million, over half of which was fuel related, primarily driven by project additions and the increased generation in the ERCOT region. Included in operating expenses in 2004 are charges of approximately $81 million associated wi th the restructuring of the Marcus Hook steam contract, which consisted of the write off of an auxiliary boiler of approximately $33 million and a $48 million contract termination payment. As a result of changes in market conditions since initiation of the Marcus Hook project in the late 1990s, it became more economical to dispatch the plant during peak hours and uneconomical to operate the auxiliary boiler to satisfy the steam contract obligation when the plant is not running. Earnings from investments in partnerships and joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $5 million from the prior year primarily due to the positive effects on operating results of prior contract restructurings, the receipt of a portion of a settlement related to a previous investment in an Indonesian project partially offset by unrealized losses from non qualifying hedge activity in the portfolio in 2004 compared to gains in 2003. Also, during 2004, FPL Energy recorded a net gain of approximately $52 million on the termination of a gas supply contract and a steam agreement which was essentially offset by an impairment loss recorded as a result of agreeing to sell its interest in a combined cycle power plant in Texas. The sale was completed in 2004. FPL Energys net income for the year ended 2004 also reflected higher interest expense of $56 million due to growth in the business reflecting more projects being placed in service and the acquisition of new projects, as well as higher average interest rates of approximately 60 basis points. PTCs amounted to approximately $109 million and $78 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. In June 2005, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group completed the acquisition of Gexa Corp., a retail electric provider in Texas which was valued at approximately $73 million, payable in shares of FPL Group common stock. The Texas commodity markets have recently experienced significant price increases, which have led some regulators, government officials and other interested parties to call for a review of the structure and operation of the Texas retail market. FPL Energy is unable to predict whether such review will occur or result in any changes to the market structure. However, if changes occur in the market structure, such changes could affect Gexas ability to sign and retain new and existing customers. FPL Energy will continue to monitor these events. In January 2006, FPL Energy completed the acquisition of a 70% interest, or approximately 415 mw, in Duane Arnold, a nuclear power plant located near Cedar Rapids, Iowa, from IP&L. FPL Energy purchased the 70% interest, including nuclear fuel, inventory and other items for a total of approximately $373 million. FPL Energy is selling its share of the output of Duane Arnold to IP&L at a price of approximately $46 per mwh in 2006, escalating annually to approximately $61 per mwh in 2013, under a long term contract expiring in 2014. FPL Energy is responsible for management and operation of the plant, as well as for the ultimate decommissioning of the facility, the cost of which will be shared on a pro rata basis by the joint owners. FPL Energy received approximately $188 million of decommissioning funds at closing. FPL Energy expects to file for a license extension for the plant in 2009, which, if approved, will enabl e the plant to continue to operate for an additional 20 years beyond its current license expiration of 2014. FPL Energy expects its future capacity growth to come primarily from wind development benefiting from the extension of the production tax credit program through 2007 for new wind facilities, as well as from asset acquisitions. FPL Energy plans to add approximately 625 mw to 750 mw of new wind generation in each of 2006 and 2007, including over 700 mw which are currently under construction or have been approved by FPL Groups board of directors. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic region. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets will vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets divested under deregulation plans or available from other competitors and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. FPL Energy seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio, by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. As of December 31, 2005, FPL Energy had 86% of its on peak capacity under contract for 2006. Over the last several years, contracting for the sale of electricity output was more difficult as a result of overcapacity in certain regions and diminished market liquidity due to fewer creditworthy counterparties. However, the major markets in which FPL Energ y operates have shown signs of continued improvement since 2004, such as improved sparks spreads and energy prices in ERCOT and NEPOOL. The combination of new wind projects, expected increase in contribution from merchant assets and asset acquisitions are expected to be the key drivers in supporting FPL Energys growth over the next few years. FPL Energys earnings are subject to variability due to, among other things, operational performance, commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. FPL Energys exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the degree of contract coverage obtained for 2006 and 2007. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 86% of FPL Energys expected 2006 capacity was hedged against commodity price volatility. If FPL Energys plants do not perform as expected, this high degree of hedging could result in FPL Energy being required to purchase power, including transportation, in the market at potentially higher prices to meet its contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2005, FPL Energys capacity under contract for 2006 and 2007 was as follows: 2006 2007 Project Portfolio Category Available MW (a) % MW Under Contract Available MW (a) % MW Under Contract Wind 3,166 97 % (b) 3,287 93 % (b) Contracted (c) 2,461 99 % (b) 2,461 99 % (b) Merchant: (d) NEPOOL 2,281 74 % (e) 2,454 49 % (e) ERCOT 2,598 87 % (e) 2,627 37 % (e) All other 1,417 58 % (e) 1,372 18 % (e) Total portfolio (f) 11,921 86 % (e) 12,200 65 % (e) (a) Weighted to reflect projected in service dates, planned maintenance, Seabrooks planned refueling outage and power uprate in 2006, the acquisition of a 70% interest, or approximately 415 mw, in Duane Arnold and its planned refueling outage in 2007, and expected production from renewable resource assets. (b) Reflects round the clock mw under contract. (c) Includes all projects with mid to long term purchase power contracts for substantially all of their output. (d) Includes only those facilities that require active hedging. (e) Represents on peak mw under contract. (f) Totals may not add due to rounding. FPL Energys results are affected by natural fluctuations in weather. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect production levels of the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, FPL Energy is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. FPL Energy actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. Substantially all of FPL Energys 2006 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of interest expense, FPL FiberNet and other business activities as well as corporate interest income and expenses. Corporate and Other allocates interest charges to FPL Energy based on a deemed capital structure at FPL Energy of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for projects under construction. Corporate and Others net loss for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $50 million, $34 million and $37 million, respectively. Results for Corporate and Other in 2005 reflect approximately $25 million in certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States and gains of approximately $10 million ($6 million after tax) from the sale and termination of leveraged lease agreements, which are included in gains (losses) on disposal of equity method investees and leveraged leases net in FPL Groups consolidated statemen ts of income. Operating expenses at Corporate and Other increased $18 million in 2005 primarily due to higher corporate expenses, including the absence of the pension transition credit that was fully amortized in 2004. Interest expense at Corporate and Other increased $20 million primarily due to higher interest rates. Corporate and Others 2005 results also reflect an increase in interest income of approximately $10 million primarily related to interest on a secured third party loan that was repaid in October 2005. Results from Corporate and Other for 2004 reflect certain state tax benefits resulting from FPL Energys growth throughout the United States as well as the resolution of other tax issues totaling approximately $30 million, partially offset by higher interest expenses and the absence of gains at FPL FiberNet associated with restructuring two transactions in 2003. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures and investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, to pay maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, to redeem outstanding debt and or repurchase common stock. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. Credit ratings can affect FPL Groups, FPLs and FPL Group Capitals ability to obtain short and long term financing, the cost of such financing and the execution of their respective financing strategies. FPL Groups cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 reflect the receipt of cash collateral primarily from FPLs counterparties related to energy contracts (margin cash deposits), under recovered fuel costs at FPL caused primarily by higher than anticipated fuel costs, the payment of 2004 and 2005 storm restoration costs and recoveries from customers of a portion of the 2004 storm restoration costs. See Note 1 Storm Reserve Deficiency. The cash collateral amounts associated with energy contracts can fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, commodity price movements in the underlying contracts. FPL Groups cash flows from investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 reflect continuing investment by FPL to meet customer demand of approximately $1.6 billion and new investments at FPL Energy of approximately $815 million, as well as FPL Group Capitals receipt of approximately $218 million in full payment of a secured third party loan. During 2005, FPL Group generated proceeds of approximately $2.7 billion from financing activities, including approximately $575 million from the sale of FPL Group common stock related to the Corporate Units issued in February 2002, the issuance of $600 million in first mortgage bonds at FPL, approximately $821 million from the issuance of limited recourse senior secured bonds, limited recourse floating rate notes and draws on a construction revolver by FPL Energy subsidiaries, approximately $64 million related to the exercise of stock options and warrants and a net increase in commercial paper of $667 million. During 2005, FPL Group used approximately $1.2 billion to pay off maturing debt, and redeem or make principal payments on debt and preferred stock. Maturities, redemptions and principal payments during 2005 included the maturity of $600 million in debentures at FPL Group Capital and $500 million in first mortgage bonds at FPL, the redemption of $5 million of FPL preferred stock held by third parties, a redemption of approximately $5 million in 7.35% bonds at FPL Group Capital and principal payments of approximately $110 million at FPL Energy. Also during 2005, FPL Energy subsidiaries entered into two interest rate swap agreements. One swap associated with a variable rate construction revolver, was to receive LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.255% to hedge specified notional amounts ranging from approximately $4 million to $6 million through November 2007 and approximately $163 million from November 2007 until the related debt matures in June 2008. The other swap was to receive LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.905% on $266 million of a limited recourse note. In addition, in November 2005, FPL Group Capital reset the annual interest rate on $506 million principal amount of its debentures due February 2008 from 5.0% to 5.551%. These debentures were originally issued in June 2002 in connection with FPL G roups publicly traded equity units known as Corporate Units. The interest rate was reset as a result of FPL Group Capital remarketing these debentures. Neither FPL Group nor FPL Group Capital received any proceeds from the remarketing of the debentures. See further discussion of interest rate swaps in Note 10 Interest Rate Swaps. In January 2006, FPL issued $400 million of 5.65% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2037. In February 2006, FPL Group paid net approximately $48 million to cancel approximately 4.2 million of its Corporate Units sold in June 2002. Also in February 2006, FPL Group issued approximately 8.7 million shares of common stock in return for approximately $296 million in proceeds, upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued in connection with its Corporate Units sold in June 2002. The following provides various metrics regarding FPL Groups (including FPLs) and FPLs outstanding debt: FPL Group FPL December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Weighted average annual interest rate (a) 5.9 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 4.9 % Weighted average life (years) 9.3 8.7 15.1 14.3 Annual average of floating rate debt to total debt (a) 35 % 31 % 40 % 34 % (a) Calculations include interest rate swaps. FPL was impacted by Hurricanes Dennis, Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 and by Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne in 2004. These hurricanes did major damage in parts of FPLs service territory and collectively resulted in customer power outages in 2005 and 2004 of 5.3 million and 5.4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2005, storm restoration costs incurred by FPL during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance reserve. At December 31, 2005, FPLs storm reserve deficiency totaled approximately $1.1 billion. The storm reserve deficiency associated with the 2004 hurricanes, plus interest, is being recovered primarily through a storm damage surcharge applied to retail customer bills over a 36 month period that began in February 2005, and totaled approximately $297 million at December 31, 2005. The remaining balance of the storm reserve deficiency primarily relates to the stor m restoration costs associated with 2005 hurricanes. In January 2006, FPL petitioned the FPSC for approval to recover approximately $1.7 billion of storm costs through the issuance of $1,050 million of storm recovery bonds pursuant to the securitization provisions of Section 366.8260 of the Florida Statutes. The storm bond proceeds will provide for the net of tax recovery of the remaining balance of the unrecovered hurricane costs of $1,040 million (estimated balance as of July 31, 2006) and the replenishment of the storm reserve to approximately $650 million. If the FPSC determines that the storm restoration costs should not be securitized and instead should be recovered through another means, FPL has recommended as an alternative recovering the 2005 hurricane costs through a surcharge over approximately three years and implementing a separate surcharge to fund a $650 million storm reserve. The FPSCs decision is expected in May 2006. On February 2, 200 6, several interested parties filed a motion to dismiss FPLs petition, claiming that the petition did not satisfy certain technical requirements. FPL filed its response to the motion on February 6, 2006, asserting that the requirements cited are not applicable to FPLs petition and which were met in any event. The FPSC has the right to review FPLs storm charges for prudence, and has the authority to determine the manner and timing of recovery. See Note 1 Storm Reserve Deficiency. In January 2006, the FPSC held an electric infrastructure workshop to discuss the damage to electric utility facilities incurred due to recent hurricanes and to explore ways of minimizing damage and resulting outages to customers in the future. Presentations on hurricane issues were made by representatives of city governments, vendors and the Florida utilities. On January 30, 2006, FPL filed a report with the FPSC outlining its Storm Secure Plan, a new initiative to enhance its electrical grid as a result of heightened hurricane activity and in response to concerns expressed by the community, state leaders and regulators. On February 7, 2006, the FPSC approved a rule that requires the Florida electric utilities to inspect their transmission and distribution wood poles on an eight year inspection cycle and file an annual report with the FPSC regarding such inspections. The FPSC has scheduled a meeting for February 27, 2006 to discuss what the next step(s) will be. FPL Groups charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. During the first quarter of 2005, FPL Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.34 to $0.355 per share. In February 2006, FPL Group announced that it would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.355 to $0.375. FPL pays dividends to FPL Group in a manner consistent with FPLs long term targeted capital structure. FPL Group made capital contributions to FPL in 2003 of $600 million. FPLs mortgage contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to FPL Group and the issuance of additional first mort gage bonds. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. Under the mortgage securing FPLs first mortgage bonds, in some cases, the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock is restricted. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPLs use of retained earnings. As of December 31, 2005, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage. FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPLs first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non junior FPL indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, after giving effect to the January 2006 issuance of $400 million 5.65% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2037, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2005 would have been in excess of 8.5 times the annual interest requirements and 5 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on depos it with the mortgage trustee. As of December 31, 2005, after giving effect to the January 2006 issuance of $400 million 5.65% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2037, FPL could have issued in excess of $5.5 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded property additions and in excess of $5.5 billion based on retired first mortgage bonds. As of December 31, 2005, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of debt outstanding. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL Group Capital and FPL, the maintenance of a specific minimum level of credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit facilities. However, commitment fees and interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements are tied to credit ratings and would increase or decrease when ratings are changed. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain power purchase and other agreements. FPL G roup subsidiaries, including FPL, may be required to post collateral in excess of collateral threshold amounts when FPL Groups exposure to the counterparty under the applicable trading agreement exceeds such threshold. Securities of FPL Group and its subsidiaries are currently rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). At February 22, 2006, Moodys, S&P and Fitch had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys (a) S&P (a) Fitch (a) FPL Group: (b) Corporate credit rating A2 A A FPL: (b) Corporate credit rating A1 A/A 1 N/A First mortgage bonds Aa3 A AA Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds Aa3/VMIG 1 A A+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F 1 FPL Group Capital: (b) Corporate credit rating N/A A/A 1 N/A Debentures A2 A A Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F 1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. (b) The outlook indicated by Moodys, S&P and Fitch is negative, watch negative and stable, respectively. FPL Groups commitments at December 31, 2005 were as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total (millions) Long term debt, including interest: (a) FPL $ 306 $ 169 $ 363 $ 376 $ 144 $ 5,694 $ 7,052 FPL Energy 322 690 547 206 199 1,346 3,310 Corporate and Other 1,321 1,189 577 666 18 914 4,685 Corporate Units 2 2 Purchase obligations: FPL (b) 5,800 3,880 2,730 2,880 2,500 6,965 24,755 FPL Energy (c) 1,335 614 56 56 56 779 2,896 Corporate and Other 52 52 Asset retirement activities: (d) FPL (e) 11,571 11,571 FPL Energy (f) 1,869 1,869 Total $ 9,138 $ 6,542 $ 4,273 $ 4,184 $ 2,917 $ 29,138 $ 56,192 (a) Includes principal, interest and interest rate swaps. Variable rate interest was computed using December 31, 2005 rates. (b) Represents required capacity and minimum payments under long term purchased power and fuel contracts, the majority of which is recoverable through various cost recovery clauses (see Note 16 Contracts), and projected capital expenditures through 2010 to meet, among other things, increased electricity usage and customer growth, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities (see Note 16 Commitments). (c) Represents firm commitments primarily in connection with the supply of wind turbines and towers, natural gas transportation, supply and storage, firm transmission service, nuclear fuel, a portion of its projected capital expenditures and in 2006 the acquisition of a 70% interest in Duane Arnold. See Note 16 Commitments and Contracts. (d) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. (e) At December 31, 2005, FPL had $2,083 million in restricted trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPLs nuclear units, which are included in nuclear decommissioning reserve funds. (f) At December 31, 2005, FPL Energys 88.23% portion of Seabrooks restricted trust fund for the payment of future expenditures to decommission Seabrook was $318 million and is included in FPL Groups nuclear decommissioning reserve funds. FPL Group and FPL obtain letters of credit and issue guarantees to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. At December 31, 2005, FPL Group had standby letters of credit of approximately $927 million ($14 million for FPL) and approximately $5,540 million notional amount of guarantees ($265 million for FPL), of which approximately $5,423 million ($249 million for FPL) have expirations within the next five years. These letters of credit and guarantees support the buying and selling of wholesale energy commodities, debt related reserves and other contractual agreements. FPL Group and FPL believe it is unlikely that they would be required to perform or otherwise incur any losses associated with these letters of credit and guarantees. At December 31, 2005, FPL Group and FPL did not have any liabilities recorded for these letters of credit and guarantees. In addition, FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations o f FPL Group Capital, including most of those under FPL Group Capitals debt, including all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its guarantees, and FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of FPL Energy and its subsidiaries. See Note 16 Commitments. In addition to the above, FPL Energy has guaranteed certain performance obligations of a power plant owned by a wholly owned subsidiary as part of a power purchase agreement that expires in 2027. Under this agreement, the subsidiary could incur market based liquidated damages for failure to meet contractual minimum outputs. In addition, certain subsidiaries of FPL Energy have contracts that require certain projects to meet annual minimum generation amounts. Failure to meet the annual minimum generation amounts would result in the FPL Energy subsidiary incurring specified liquidated damages. Based on past performance of these and similar projects and current forward prices, management believes that the exposure associated with these guarantees is not material. Bank revolving lines of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are as follows: FPL (a) FPL Group Capital Total Maturity Date (millions) $ 2,000 $ 2,500 $ 4,500 November 2010 (a) Excludes a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility of a consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL, which matures in June 2009 and is available only to the VIE. These credit facilities provide for the issuance of letters of credit up to $4.5 billion and are available to support the companies commercial paper programs and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies or their subsidiaries operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and distribution property loss), as well as for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2005, letters of credit totaling $598 million were outstanding under FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under FPLs credit facilities. FPL Group (which guarantees the payment of FPL Group Capitals credit facilities pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement) is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPL Group Capitals credit facility. FPL is required to maintain a minimum ratio of funded debt to total capitalization under the terms of FPLs credit facility. At December 31, 2005, each of FPL Group and FPL was in compliance with its respective ratio. In addition, at December 31, 2005, FPL Energy had a $50 million letter of credit outstanding. Also, FPL Group Capital and FPL have each established an uncommitted credit facility with a bank to be used for general corporate purposes. The bank may at its discretion, upon the request of FPL Group Capital or FPL, make a short term loan or loans to FPL Group Capital or FPL in an aggregate amount determined by the bank, which is subject to change at any time. The terms of the specific borrowings under the uncommitted credit facilities, including maturity, are set at the time borrowing requests are made by FPL Group Capital or FPL. At December 31, 2005, there were no amounts outstanding for either FPL Group Capital or FPL under the uncommitted credit facilities. In addition to the bank lines of credit discussed above, a consolidated FPL VIE that leases nuclear fuel to FPL has established a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which expires in June 2009, to provide backup support for its commercial paper program. FPL has provided an unconditional guarantee of the payment obligations of the VIE under the credit facility, which is included in the guarantee discussion above. At December 31, 2005, the VIE had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and had approximately $59 million of commercial paper outstanding. FPL also provides an unconditional payment guarantee of the VIEs $135 million of 2.34% senior secured notes, maturing in June 2006, which is included in the guarantee discussion above. At February 22, 2006, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital had $2.0 billion (issuable by either or both of them up to such aggregate amount) of available capacity under shelf registration statements. Securities that may be issued under the FPL Group and FPL Group Capital shelf registration statements, depending on the registrant, include common stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, preferred stock, senior debt securities, preferred trust securities and related subordinated debt securities, and guarantees relating to certain of those securities. This capacity is available for, among other things, new investment opportunities. In February 2005, FPL Groups board of directors approved a two for one stock split of FPL Groups common stock effective March 15, 2005 (2005 stock split). FPL Groups authorized common stock increased from 400 million to 800 million shares. Also in February 2005, FPL Groups board of directors authorized a new common stock repurchase plan of up to 20 million shares of common stock (after giving effect to the 2005 stock split) over an unspecified period, which plan was ratified and confirmed by the board of directors in December 2005, and terminated a previous common stock repurchase plan. At December 31, 2005, no shares had been repurchased under the repurchase plan. In June 2005, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group completed the acquisition of Gexa Corp., a retail electric provider in Texas, which serves approximately 1,200 mw of peak load to over 160,000 commercial and residential customers as of December 31, 2005. Each share of Gexa Corp.s outstanding common stock was converted into 0.1682 of a share of FPL Group common stock. Assuming the exercise of Gexa Corp.s options and warrants net of cash to be received upon exercise, the aggregate value of the consideration for the acquisition of Gexa Corp. was approximately $73 million, payable in shares of FPL Group common stock. In December 2005, FPL Group and Constellation Energy entered into an agreement and plan of merger that is expected to create a combined company which will be the nations largest competitive energy supplier based on generation and have the second largest electric utility portfolio based on the number of customers served. Completion of the merger and the actual closing date depend upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including shareholder approvals and the receipt of required regulatory approvals. The parties believe that the proposed merger will offer both strategic and financial advantages in serving the energy marketplace, as well as generate significant cost savings and synergies, the majority of which are expected to come from the competitive energy businesses. These synergies are expected to result from consolidation of competitive energy business unit operations, sharing of best practices, improved procurement strategies and consolidation of systems and supp ort activities. In a tax free, stock for stock exchange, each share of Constellation Energy common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be converted into 1.444 shares of Constellation Energy common stock and each share of FPL Group common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be converted into one share of Constellation Energy common stock. Upon completion of the merger, former FPL Group shareholders will own approximately 60 percent and Constellation Energys shareholders will own approximately 40 percent of the combined company. See Note 2. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, FPL Group adopted FAS 123(R), "Share Based Payment." The statement requires costs related to share based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements based on grant date fair value. Because FPL Group adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FAS 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," on January 1, 2004, the adoption of FAS 123(R) will not have a significant financial impact for the year ending December 31, 2006. Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations On December 31, 2005, FPL Group and FPL adopted FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations," an interpretation of FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." See Note 15. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to exercise judgment and make estimates and assumptions where amounts are not subject to precise measurement or are dependent on future events. Critical accounting policies and estimates, which are important to the portrayal of both FPL Groups and FPLs financial condition and results of operations and which require complex, subjective judgments are as follows: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in fuel and electricity contracts, optimize the value of power generation assets and related contracts and manage risks associated with changes in interest rates. To a lesser extent, FPL Group and FPL also engage in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected favorable price movements. Accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity and fuel. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. The near term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel and capacity clauses. In non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, changes in derivative fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless the criteria for hedge accounting are met and the company elects to account for the derivative as a hedge. For those transactions accounted for as cash flow hed ges, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of common shareholders equity, rather than being recognized in current earnings. For those transactions accounted for as fair value hedges the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in current earnings offset by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. Since FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and, from time to time, issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133. In particular, much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from the provisions of FAS 133. Despite the large volume of implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance does not provide specific guidance on all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations. The interpretation of FAS 133 continues to evolve. A result of changes in interpretation could be that contracts that currently are excluded from the provisions of FAS 133 would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. During the fourth quarter of 2003, FPL Group and its subsidiaries adopted EITF 03 11, which precluded certain economic hedging transactions at FPL Energy from qualifying for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the non qualifying hedge category and may result in volatility in the non qualifying hedge category. The ongoing changes in accounting guidance relating to derivatives confirm managements belief in the importance of segregating the effects of the unrealized mark to market impact of non qualifying hedges. Without any change in FPL Groups economic positions or the timing or amounts of future cash flows, a small change in classification of particular transactions can result in significant changes in net income. This could be significant to FPL Energys results because often the economic offset to the positions which are required to be marked to market (such as the physical assets from whi ch power is generated) are not marked to market. As a consequence, net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically linked transactions. Because of this, FPL Groups management continues to view results expressed excluding the unrealized mark to market impact of the non qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 4 and also see Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits FPL Group sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries. FPL Group also has a non qualified supplemental defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits to higher level employees. In addition to pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a substantially contributory postretirement plan for health care and split dollar life insurance benefits (other benefits) for retirees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility requirements. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing the benefits under the plan. The other benefits plan has a partially funded trust dedicated to providing benefits related to life insurance. FPL Groups pension income net of the cost of other benefits was approximately $53 million, $81 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $38 million, $63 million and $60 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of other benefits are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years, assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4.0% for 2005 and 2004 and 4.5% for 2003, and a weighted average discount rate of 5.50% for 2005 and 2004 and 6.00% for 2003, respectively. Based on current health care costs (as related to other benefits), the projected 2006 trend assumption used to measure the expected cost of health care benefits covered by the plans for all age groups are 8.50% for medical benefits and 10. 50% for prescription drug benefits. The rates are assumed to decrease over the next eight years to the ultimate trend rate of 5.0% and remain at that level thereafter. The ultimate trend rate is assumed to be reached in 2013 for medical costs and 2017 for prescription drug costs. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the marketplace. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year historical median returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds. FPL Group also considered its funds historical compounded returns. FPL Group believes that 7.75% is a reasonable long term rate of return on its plans assets. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market re lated value of assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% (from 7.75% to 7.25%) would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2005 by approximately $14 million ($10 million for FPL). Lowering the discount rate assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2005 by approximately $5 million ($4 million for FPL). Raising the salary increase assumption by 0.5% would have decreased FPL Groups net income for 2005 by approximately $2 million ($1 million for FPL). Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for postretirement plans providing health care benefits. However, this effect is somewhat mitigated by the retiree cost sharing structure incorporated in FPL Groups other benefits plan. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by 1% would have reduced FPL Groups net income for 2005 by approximately $1 million. The fair value of plan assets has increased from $2.9 billion at September 30, 2004 to $3.1 billion at September 30, 2005 for the pension plan and decreased from $50 million at September 30, 2004 to $49 million at September 30, 2005 for other benefits. Management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. In December 2005, $24 million was transferred from the qualified pension plan as reimbursement for eligible retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group during the year pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. FPL Group anticipates paying approximately $27 million for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the other benefits plan during 2006 with substantially all of that amount being reimbursed through a transfer of assets from the qualified pension plan p ursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. See Note 3. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." Under that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement FPL Group and FPL adopted FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" and FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations," effective January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2005, respectively. FAS 143 and FIN 47 require that a liability for the fair value of an asset retirement obligation (ARO) be recognized in the period in which it is incurred with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived assets. For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. FPL filed updated nuclear decommissioning studies in 2005, which indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is $10.9 billion, or $2.0 billion in 2005 dollars. The 2005 studies reflect, among other things, the 20 year license extensions of FPLs nuclear units and support the suspension, effective September 2005, of the $79 million annual decommissioning accrual. At December 31, 2005, $2,351 million was accrued for nuclear decommissioning, of which $1,460 million was recorded as an ARO, $57 million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $770 million was recorded as a regulatory liability and $178 million was included in accrued asset removal costs o n the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC at least every four years. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies, which became effective January 1, 2003, indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $668 million. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered AROs. At December 31, 2005, the provision for fossil dismantlement was approximately $277 million and is included in accrued asset removal costs. FPL Energy records a liability for the present value of Seabrooks expected decommissioning costs in accordance with FAS 143 and FIN 47. Comprehensive studies are filed with the New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee every four years, with updates provided annually. These studies indicate that FPL Energys 88.23% portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning Seabrook, including costs associated with spent fuel storage, is approximately $1,496 million, or $604 million in 2005 dollars. At December 31, 2005, the ARO for Seabrooks nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $189 million. See Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 15. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves the use of estimates and judgments concerning the amount and timing of future expenditures and whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation under FAS 143 and FIN 47. FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate, rate of return and inflation projections to determine funding requirements related to decommissioning. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update their estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Regulatory Accounting FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of FAS 71 is assessed at each reporting period. FPLs regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: December 31, 2005 2004 (millions) Regulatory assets: Current: Deferred clause and franchise expenses $ 795 $ 230 Storm reserve deficiency $ 156 $ 163 Derivatives $ $ 9 Other $ 7 $ Noncurrent: Storm reserve deficiency $ 957 $ 373 Deferred clause expenses $ 307 $ Unamortized loss on reacquired debt $ 42 $ 45 Litigation settlement $ $ 45 Other $ 37 $ 38 Regulatory liabilities: Current: Deferred clause and franchise revenues $ 32 $ 30 Derivatives $ 757 $ Noncurrent: Accrued asset removal costs $ 2,033 $ 2,012 Asset retirement obligation regulatory expense difference $ 786 $ 266 Unamortized investment tax credits $ 62 $ 81 Other $ 90 $ 106 See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and FPL Energy, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as to optimize the value of power generation assets. To a lesser extent, FPL Group and FPL engage in limited energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause or the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly FPL Energy, essentially all changes in the derivatives fair value for power purchases and sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized net in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. See Note 4. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups consolidated subsidiaries energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: Hedges on Owned Assets Proprietary Trading Managed Non Qualifying OCI FPL Cost Recovery Clauses FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003 $ 7 $ 1 $ 21 $ (11 ) $ 94 $ 112 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (15 ) (2 ) (60 ) 1 (223 ) (299 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (99 ) (99 ) Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (7 ) (7 ) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 14 (1 ) 36 120 169 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004 6 (2 ) (10 ) (109 ) (9 ) (124 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (6 ) 3 (9 ) 89 (617 ) (540 ) Acquisition of Gexa contracts 38 38 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (353 ) (353 ) Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (33 ) (33 ) Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 3 (2 ) (162 ) 1,383 1,222 Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005 3 (1 ) (176 ) (373 ) 757 210 Net option premium payments (receipts) 1 10 71 82 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2005 $ 3 $ $ (166 ) $ (373 ) $ 828 $ 292 FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2005 shown above are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: December 31, 2005 (millions) Derivative assets $ 1,070 Other assets 56 Other current liabilities (449 ) Other liabilities (385 ) FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net assets $ 292 The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2005 were as follows: Maturity 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total (millions) Proprietary Trading: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices $ (16 ) $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ (15 ) Prices provided by other external sources 58 1 1 1 61 Modeled (43 ) (43 ) Total (1 ) 2 1 1 3 Owned Assets Managed: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices (20 ) (20 ) Prices provided by other external sources 9 1 10 Modeled 9 9 Total (2 ) 1 (1 ) Owned Assets Non Qualifying: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices 88 22 (9 ) (2 ) (7 ) (7 ) 85 Prices provided by other external sources (144 ) (58 ) (8 ) (1 ) (17 ) (228 ) Modeled (29 ) 1 (1 ) (1 ) (3 ) (33 ) Total (85 ) (35 ) (17 ) (4 ) (8 ) (27 ) (176 ) Owned Assets OCI: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices 1 1 Prices provided by other external sources (107 ) (191 ) (57 ) (15 ) (4 ) (374 ) Modeled Total (106 ) (191 ) (57 ) (15 ) (4 ) (373 ) Owned Assets FPL Cost Recovery Clauses: Actively quoted (i.e., exchange trade) prices 690 690 Prices provided by other external sources 50 50 Modeled 17 17 Total 757 757 Total sources of fair value $ 563 $ (223 ) $ (74 ) $ (19 ) $ (11 ) $ (26 ) $ 210 Market Risk Sensitivity Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. FPL Group manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. FPL Groups credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading and Managed Hedges Non Qualifying Hedges and Hedges in OCI and FPL cost recovery clauses (a) Total FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group FPL FPL Energy FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2004 $ $ $ $ 55 $ 12 $ 48 $ 55 $ 15 $ 47 December 31, 2005 $ $ $ $ 114 $ 38 $ 98 $ 114 $ 38 $ 98 Average for the period ended December 31, 2005 $ $ 1 $ 1 $ 57 $ 40 $ 48 $ 57 $ 40 $ 49 (a) Non qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non qualifying hedges and hedges in OCI and FPL cost recovery clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. Interest rate risk FPL Group and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their respective issuances of debt, investments in nuclear decommissioning reserve funds and interest rate swaps. FPL Group and FPL manage their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates, entering into interest rate swaps and adjusting their variable rate debt in relation to total capitalization. The following are estimates of the fair value of FPL Groups and FPLs financial instruments: December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value FPL Group: (millions) Long term debt, including current maturities $ 9,443 $ 9,540 (a) $ 9,247 $ 9,611 (a) Fixed income securities: Nuclear decommissioning reserve funds $ 1,290 $ 1,290 (b) $ 1,219 $ 1,219 (b) Other investments $ 80 $ 80 (b) $ 72 $ 72 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ (9 ) $ (9 )(c) $ (11 ) $ (11 )(c) FPL: Long term debt, including current maturities $ 3,406 $ 3,416 (a) $ 3,311 $ 3,438 (a) Fixed income securities: Nuclear decommissioning reserve funds $ 1,151 $ 1,151 (b) $ 1,081 1,081 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized loss $ $ $ (2 ) $ (2 )(c) (a) Based on market prices provided by external sources. (b) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. (c) Based on market prices modeled internally. The nuclear decommissioning reserve funds of FPL Group consist of restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value. Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI. See Note 10. FPL Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to adjust and mitigate interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. At December 31, 2005, the estimated fair value for FPL Group interest rate swaps was as follows: Notional Amount Effective Date Maturity Date Rate Paid Rate Received Estimated Fair Value (millions) (millions) Fair value hedges FPL Group Capital: $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (a) 7.625 % $ (3 ) $ 150 July 2003 September 2006 variable (b) 7.625 % (3 ) $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (c) 3.250 % (2 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (d) 3.250 % $ 195 October 2004 April 2006 variable (e) 3.250 % (2 ) $ 55 October 2004 April 2006 variable (f) 3.250 % $ 300 November 2004 February 2007 variable (g) 4.086 % (5 ) $ 275 December 2004 February 2007 variable (h) 4.086 % (4 ) Total fair value hedges (19 ) Cash flow hedges FPL Energy: $ 90 August 2002 December 2007 4.410 % variable (i) 1 $ 185 August 2003 November 2007 3.557 % variable (i) 4 $ 6 February 2005 June 2008 4.255 % variable (i) 1 $ 85 December 2003 December 2017 4.245 % variable (i) 3 $ 28 April 2004 December 2017 3.845 % variable (i) 1 $ 266 December 2005 November 2019 4.905 % variable (i) Total cash flow hedges 10 Total interest rate hedges $ (9 ) (a) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9900% (b) Six month LIBOR plus 4.9925% (c) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0153% (d) Six month LIBOR plus 0.0100% (e) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1500% (f) Six month LIBOR plus 0.1525% (g) Three month LIBOR plus 0.50577% (h) Three month LIBOR plus 0.4025% (i) Three month LIBOR Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of FPL Groups net liabilities would increase by approximately $311 million ($171 million for FPL) at December 31, 2005. Equity price risk Included in the nuclear decommissioning reserve funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $1,113 million and $1,051 million ($933 million and $890 million for FPL) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $111 million ($93 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL, or adjustments to OCI for FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, at December 31, 2005. Credit risk For all derivative and contractual transactions, FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations, which includes FPLs energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Relevant considerations when assessing FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations credit risk exposure include: Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the United States. Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies. Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of cash collateral. The use of master netting agreements to offset cash and non cash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. FPL Groups policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. Based on FPL Groups policies and risk exposures related to credit, FPL Group and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial positions as a result of counterparty nonperformance. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 99% of both FPL Groups and FPLs energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have investment grade credit ratings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 
 
