Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MISO Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. mortgage mortgage and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, from FPL to Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as supplemented and amended mw megawatt(s) NEPOOL New England Power Pool NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NextEra Energy Resources NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, formerly known as FPL Energy, LLC Note note to consolidated financial statements NOx nitrogen oxide NRC U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Policy Act Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended O&M expenses other operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income PJM PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. PMI NextEra Energy Power Marketing, LLC Point Beach Point Beach Nuclear Power Plant PTCs production tax credits PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended qualifying facilities non utility power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying facility under the PURPA Recovery Act American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 regulatory ROE return on common equity as determined for regulatory purposes RFP request for proposal ROE return on common equity Seabrook Seabrook Station SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEGS Solar Electric Generating System SO2 sulfur dioxide VIE variable interest entity WCEC FPLs West County Energy Center in western Palm Beach County, Florida FPL Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and NextEra Energy Resources each has subsidiaries and affiliates with names that may include FPL, NextEra Energy Resources, NextEra Energy, FPL Energy, FPLE and similar references. For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms FPL Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and NextEra Energy Resources are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific subsidiaries, affiliates or groups of subsidiaries or affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page No. Definitions 2 Forward Looking Statements 3 PART I Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. In the discussion of Results of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Overview FPL Group is one of the nations largest providers of electricity related services. It has two principal operating subsidiaries, FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. FPL serves more than 8.7 million people throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. NextEra Energy Resources, FPL Groups competitive energy subsidiary, produces electricity primarily using wind, natural gas and nuclear resources. Together, FPLs and NextEra Energy Resources generating assets represented approximately 42,700 mw of capacity at December 31, 2009. See Item 2 Generating Facilities. Another of FPL Groups operating subsidiaries, FPL FiberNet, provides fiber optic services to FPL, telecommunications companies and other customers throughout Florida. FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the sale of electricity to retail customers at rates established by the FPSC through base rates and cost recovery clause mechanisms. In March 2009, FPL filed a petition with the FPSC requesting, among other things, a permanent base rate increase of approximately $1 billion in 2010 and an additional $250 million in 2011, which included additions to the storm and property insurance reserve. The requested increases were based on a proposed regulatory ROE of 12.5% and excluded amounts associated with a proposed extension of the GBRA mechanism, which allowed for automatic adjustments in retail base rates when approved power plants achieved commercial operation, and certain proposed cost recovery clause adjustments. In connection with the FPSCs January 2010 rate ruling with respect to FPLs March 2009 petition, the FPSC indicated that the ruling would be reflected in a final written order to be issued in February 2010 (final order). The January 2010 rate ruling indicated that new retail base rates would be established for FPL effective March 1, 2010, would increase retail base rates by approximately $75 million on an annualized basis, would establish a regulatory ROE of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points and would shift certain costs from retail base rates to the capacity clause. The January 2010 rate ruling also indicated that depreciation expense would be reduced over the next four years. See Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. The January 2010 rate ruling also indicated, among other things, that any additional base rate increase for 2011, the continuation of the GBRA mechanism and any additions to the storm and property insurance reserve would be denied. As of the date of this report, the final order remains pending. Upon issuance of the final order, parties have the right to file motions with the FPSC for reconsideration of some or all of the final order, or to appeal some or all of the final order to the Florida Supreme Court. In response to inquiries regarding potential inconsistencies in calculations underlying the January 2010 rate ruling, staff for the FPSC has indicated it would address any matters raised by the parties before the final order following the filing of any motions for reconsideration. FPL cannot predict the specific treatment of any particular issue in the final order. FPL is evaluating the impact of the January 2010 rate ruling on its financial position, including its credit quality and ability to attract capital over the long term. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. FPL has suspended activities on the following projects representing approximately $10 billion of investment over the next five years until the financial impact of the final order, along with other factors, such as load growth estimates, fuel cost forecasts, demand side management and environmental incentives, can be reviewed (see Item I FPL Operations Capital Expenditures): development of two additional nuclear units at FPLs Turkey Point site beyond what is required to receive an NRC license for each unit. See Item I FPL Operations Nuclear Operations; modernization of FPLs Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants. See Item I FPL Operations Fossil Operations; reevaluation of options related to a proposed 300 mile underground natural gas pipeline in Florida; and other infrastructure projects. FPL is also evaluating its options with respect to future regulatory actions regarding the January 2010 rate ruling and, when it is issued, the final order, as well as assessing the cost structure of its ongoing operations and reviewing other planned capital expenditures for appropriate reductions. Over the last ten years, FPLs average annual customer growth has been 1.8%. However, beginning in 2007, FPL has experienced a slowdown in retail customer growth and a decline in non weather related usage per retail customer. Retail customer growth in 2008 was 0.3%. FPLs average number of retail customers declined slightly during the first three quarters of 2009 and remained essentially unchanged during the fourth quarter of 2009; the decline for the full year was 0.2%. FPL believes that the economic slowdown, the downturn in the housing market and the credit crisis that have affected the country and the state of Florida have contributed to the slowdown in customer growth and to the decline in non weather related usage per retail customer. In December 2009, the unemployment rate in Florida was 11.8%. Beginning in 2007, FPL experienced an increase in inactive accounts (accounts with installed meters without corresponding customer names) and in low usage customers (customers using less than 200 kwh per month), which have contributed to the decline in retail customer growth and non weather related usage per retail customer. In 2009, inactive accounts and low usage customers continued to increase much of the year but declined slightly in the fourth quarter. FPL is unable to predict whether or when growth in customers and non weather related customer usage might return to previous trends. 30 NextEra Energy Resources is in the competitive energy business with the majority of its operating revenues derived from wholesale electricity sales. NextEra Energy Resources strategy is, among other things, to continue to maintain its leadership position in wind, accelerate growth in solar development, continue to expand its transmission capability, grow its supply related and non asset based businesses, and to develop its natural gas infrastructure business. NextEra Energy Resources supply related business includes full energy and capacity requirements services and retail operations, and the non asset based business includes power and gas marketing and trading operations. NextEra Energy Resources seeks to expand its portfolio primarily through wind and solar development and acquisitions where economic prospects are attractive. The Recovery Act includes, among other things, provisions that allow companies building wind facilities the option to choose among three investment cost recovery mechanisms: (i) PTCs which were extended for wind facilities through 2012, (ii) ITCs of 30% of the cost for qualifying wind facilities placed in service prior to 2013, or (iii) an election to receive a cash grant of 30% of the cost of qualifying wind facilities placed in service in 2009 or 2010, or if construction began prior to December 31, 2010 and the wind facility is placed in service prior to 2013. An election to receive a cash grant of 30%, in lieu of the 30% investment tax credit allowable under present law, also applies to the cost of qualifying solar facilities placed in service in either 2009 or 2010, or if construction began prior to December 31, 2010 and the solar facility is placed in service prior to 2017. In 2009, NextEra Energy Resources added approximately 1,170 mw of wind generation to its portfolio, of which 985 mw were constructed and 185 mw were from three operating wind projects purchased in the fourth quarter of 2009. NextEra Energy Resources expects to add approximately 1,000 mw of new wind generation in 2010 and 1,000 mw to 1,500 mw in each of 2011 and 2012. In addition to wind expansion, NextEra Energy Resources is considering several solar development opportunities in the U.S., as well as in Europe. The wind and solar expansions are subject to, among other things, continued public policy support, support for the construction and availability of sufficient transmission facilities and capacity, continued market demand, supply chain expansion and access to capital at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. NextEra Energy Resources market is diversified by region as well as by fuel source. See Item 2 Generating Facilities. NextEra Energy Resources sells a large percentage of its expected output to hedge against price volatility. Consequently, if NextEra Energy Resources plants do not perform as expected, NextEra Energy Resources could be required to purchase power at potentially higher market prices to meet its contractual obligations. NextEra Energy Resources energy marketing and trading business is focused primarily on managing commodity price risk and extracting maximum value from its assets. The U.S. Congress, the EPA and certain states and regions are considering several legislative and regulatory proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets for GHG emissions. The economic and operational impact of these or any similar legislation and or regulation on FPL Group and FPL depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether the permitted emissions will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. If and until legislation is enacted and implementing regulations are adopted, the economic and operational impact (either positive or negative) on FPL Group and FPL cannot be determined but could be material. In the case of FPL, increased costs associated with compliance with new environmental regulations are generally recoverable from customers, while the recovery of such increased costs for NextEra Energy Resources would depend on market prices for electricity. See Item 1 Environmental Matters. Results of Operations FPL Group and NextEra Energy Resources segregate into two categories unrealized mark to market gains and losses on energy derivative transactions which are used to manage commodity price risk. The first category, referred to as trading activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts. The second category, referred to as non qualifying hedges, represents the net unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges but which do not qualify for hedge accounting and the ineffective portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges. In January 2010, FPL Group discontinued hedge accounting for its cash flow hedges related to energy contract derivative instruments, which could result in increased volatility in the non qualifying hedge category. At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause or the capacity clause. FPL Groups management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings) internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as inputs in determining whether performance targets are met for performance based compensation under FPL Groups employee incentive compensation plans. FPL Group also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its earnings outlook to investors. Adjusted earnings exclude the unrealized mark to market effect of non qualifying hedges and other than temporary impairment (OTTI) losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources nuclear decommissioning funds, net of the reversal of previously recognized OTTI losses on securities sold and losses on securities where price recovery was deemed unlikely (collectively, OTTI reversals). FPL Groups management believes adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the companys fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded amounts are properly included in the determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that the amount and or nature of such items make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 31 Summary Presented below is a summary of net income (loss) by reportable segment (see Note 15): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (millions) FPL $ 831 $ 789 $ 836 NextEra Energy Resources 849 915 540 Corporate and Other (65 ) (65 ) (64 ) FPL Group Consolidated $ 1,615 $ 1,639 $ 1,312 The increase in FPLs 2009 results reflects retail base rate increases pursuant to the GBRA mechanism under the 2005 rate agreement to reflect the placements in service of WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2, higher AFUDC on the WCEC units, a 0.3% increase in usage per retail customer reflecting favorable weather conditions partly offset by other factors, and higher cost recovery clause results partly offset by higher O&M and depreciation and amortization expenses. FPLs 2008 results reflect lower retail customer usage, higher depreciation and interest expenses and provisions taken in 2008 for regulatory matters, partly offset by a retail base rate increase associated with Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial operation in 2007, lower O&M expenses and higher other revenues and AFUDC equity. NextEra Energy Resources 2009 results reflect increased earnings from new investments and from full energy and capacity requirements services and trading, partly offset by lower earnings from the existing portfolio, reflecting the negative impacts of weather, and higher expenses to support the growth in the business. NextEra Energy Resources 2008 results reflect additional earnings from the existing portfolio, from new investments and from full energy and capacity requirements services and trading, partially offset by higher expenses to support the growth in the business. In addition, FPL Groups and NextEra Energy Resources net income for 2009 and 2007 reflects net unrealized after tax losses from non qualifying hedges of approximately $20 million and $86 million, respectively, while 2008 net income reflects net unrealized after tax gains from such hedges of $170 million. The change in unrealized mark to market activity is primarily attributable to changes in forward power and natural gas prices, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark to market gains or losses as the underlying transactions were realized. As a general rule, a gain (loss) in the non qualifying hedge category is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under generally accepted accounting principles. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources recorded $36 million, $82 million and $6 million, respectively, of after tax OTTI losses on securities held in its nuclear decommissioning funds. In 2009 and 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had approximately $23 million and $6 million, respectively, of after tax OTTI reversals; there were no such OTTI reversals in 2007. As a result of the spent fuel settlement agreement (see Item I FPL Operations Nuclear Operations and Item I NextEra Energy Resources Nuclear Operations), FPL Group reduced its property, plant and equipment balances by $107 million ($83 million for FPL) and operating expenses by $15 million ($12 million for FPL) and increased FPL Groups operating revenues by $9 million. The spent fuel settlement agreement increased FPL Groups 2009 net income by approximately $16 million ($9 million for FPL). The spent fuel settlement agreement permits FPL and NextEra Energy Resources to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources which will be payable by the U.S. Government on an annual basis. The amount received from the U.S. Government related to property, plant and equipment is included in cash flows from investing activities on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated statements of cash flows. Additional payments from the U.S. Government are pending. FPL and NextEra Energy Resources will continue to pay fees to the U.S. Governments nuclear waste fund. Results for Corporate and Other in 2009 reflect higher interest income and realized and unrealized gains on investments offset by lower consolidating income tax adjustments and higher interest expense. Results for Corporate and Other in 2008 reflect higher interest expense offset by additional consolidating income tax adjustments. FPL Groups effective income tax rate for all periods presented reflects PTCs for wind projects at NextEra Energy Resources and deferred tax benefits associated with grants (convertible ITCs) under the Recovery Act. PTCs and deferred tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs can significantly affect FPL Groups effective income tax rate depending on the amount of pretax income. PTCs can be significantly affected by wind generation. See Note 1 Income Taxes, Note 6 and Note 10 Sale of Differential Membership Interests. FPL FPLs net income for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $831 million, $789 million and $836 million, respectively, an increase in 2009 of $42 million and a decrease in 2008 of $47 million. The increase in FPLs 2009 results reflects retail base rate increases associated with WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2, higher AFUDC on the WCEC units, a 0.3% increase in usage per retail customer reflecting favorable weather conditions partly offset by other factors, and higher cost recovery clause results partly offset by higher O&M and depreciation and amortization expenses. FPLs 2008 results reflect lower retail customer usage, higher depreciation and interest expenses and provisions taken in 2008 for regulatory matters, partly offset by a retail base rate increase associated with Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial operation in 2007, lower O&M expenses and higher other revenues and AFUDC equity. 32 See Overview for a discussion of the FPSCs January 2010 rate ruling. Under the 2005 rate agreement, retail base rates did not increase during the term of the agreement except to allow recovery under the GBRA mechanism of the revenue requirements of FPLs three power plants that achieved commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement. Retail base rates increased approximately $115 million on an annualized basis when Turkey Point Unit No. 5 was placed in service in 2007. Retail base rates increased approximately $265 million on an annualized basis when WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2 were placed in service in 2009. These units are expected to realize significant fuel savings from the time the units were placed in service. During the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL did not have an authorized regulatory ROE for the purpose of addressing earnings levels, FPL reduced depreciation on its plant in service by $125 million each year and FPLs revenues did not exceed the thresholds established under the 2005 rate agreements revenue sharing mechanism. See Note 1 Revenues and Rates for information on FPLs regulatory ROE. FPLs operating revenues consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (millions) Retail base $ 3,828 $ 3,738 $ 3,796 Fuel cost recovery 5,982 6,202 6,162 Net deferral of retail fuel revenues (356 ) Other cost recovery clauses and pass through costs, net of any deferrals 1,840 1,505 1,490 Other, primarily pole attachment rentals, transmission and wholesale sales and customer related fees 197 204 174 Total $ 11,491 $ 11,649 $ 11,622 For the year ended December 31, 2009, a 0.2% decrease in the average number of customer accounts reduced retail base revenues by approximately $8 million while a 0.3% increase in usage per retail customer, reflecting favorable weather conditions partly offset by other factors, increased retail base revenues by approximately $30 million. Customer usage in 2009 reflects one less day of sales in 2009, as 2008 was a leap year. Base rate increases resulting from WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2 commencing commercial operation in 2009 increased retail base revenues by approximately $68 million. See Overview for a discussion of FPLs customer growth, non weather related usage and the January 2010 rate ruling. For the year ended December 31, 2008, a 0.3% increase in the average number of customer accounts increased retail base revenues by approximately $9 million while a 2.7% decrease in usage per retail customer, reflecting weather conditions and other factors, decreased retail base revenues by approximately $95 million. Partly offsetting the usage decrease was an extra day of sales in 2008, as it was a leap year. In addition, a base rate increase resulting from Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial operation in 2007 increased retail base revenues by approximately $28 million. The increase in revenues from other cost recovery clauses and pass through costs in 2009 is primarily due to additional revenues associated with the FPSCs nuclear cost recovery rule and higher conservation and environmental clause revenues. The FPSCs nuclear cost recovery rule provides for the recovery of prudently incurred pre construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through levelized charges under the capacity clause. In 2009, FPL began recovering pre construction costs associated with the development of two additional units at the Turkey Point site and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs associated with the addition of approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity at its existing nuclear units. The same rule provides for the recovery of construction costs, once the new capacity goes into service, through a base rate increase. See Overview for a discussion of activities related to the development of two additional units at the Turkey Point site. 33 Revenues from fuel and other cost recovery clauses and pass through costs, such as franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm related surcharges, are largely a pass through of costs. Such revenues also include a return allowed to be recovered through the cost recovery clauses on certain assets, primarily solar, environmental and nuclear capacity additions. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, cost recovery clauses contributed $41 million, $25 million and $23 million, respectively, to FPLs net income. The increase in 2009 cost recovery clause results is primarily due to a return related to additional solar, environmental and nuclear capacity expenditures, partly offset by lower interest earned on fuel clause underrecoveries. The increase in 2008 cost recovery clause results is primarily due to a return related to environmental expenditures and higher interest earned on fuel clause underrecoveries, partly offset by the absence of interest earned on FPLs unrecovered balance of the storm reserve deficiency, which balance was collected upon the issuance of the storm recovery bonds in 2007. In 2010, it is expected that cost recovery clauses will contribute higher earnings for FPL as a result of additional solar, environmental and nuclear capacity expenditures. Underrecovery or overrecovery of such cost recovery clause and pass through costs can significantly affect FPL Groups and FPLs operating cash flows. Fluctuations in fuel cost recovery revenues are primarily driven by changes in fuel and energy charges which are included in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense in the consolidated statements of income, as well as by changes in energy sales. Fluctuations in revenues from other cost recovery clauses and pass through costs are primarily driven by changes in storm related surcharges, capacity charges, franchise fee costs, the impact of changes in O&M and depreciation expenses on the underlying cost recovery clause, investment in solar and environmental projects, investment in nuclear capacity until such capacity goes into service, pre construction costs associated with the development of two additional units at the Turkey Point site and changes in energy sales. Capacity charges and franchise fee costs are included in fuel, purchased power and interchange and taxes other than income taxes and other, respectively, in the consolidated statements of income. FPL uses a risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the FPSC at the programs inception. The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel costs. The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPLs fuel requirements. The current regulatory asset for the change in fair value of derivative instruments used in the fuel procurement program amounted to approximately $68 million and $1,109 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in fuel revenues in 2009 reflects approximately $210 million related to a lower average fuel factor and $10 million attributable to lower energy sales. The increase in fuel revenues in 2008 reflects approximately $230 million related to a higher average fuel factor, partly offset by $190 million attributable to lower energy sales. Pursuant to an FPSC order, FPL was required to refund in the form of a one time credit to retail customers bills the 2009 year end estimated fuel overrecovery; in January 2010, approximately $403 million was refunded to retail customers. At December 31, 2009, approximately $356 million of retail fuel revenues were overrecovered. The difference between the refund and the December 31, 2009 overrecovery will be collected from retail customers in a subsequent period. The increase from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 in deferred clause and franchise revenues and the decrease in deferred clause and franchise expenses (current and noncurrent, collectively) on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $624 million and positively affected FPL Groups and FPLs cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. The major components of FPLs fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (millions) Fuel and energy charges during the period $ 5,425 $ 6,289 $ 6,259 Net collection of previously deferred retail fuel costs 256 Net deferral of retail fuel costs (55 ) (56 ) Other, primarily capacity charges, net of any capacity deferral 539 515 523 Total $ 6,220 $ 6,749 $ 6,726 The decrease in fuel and energy charges in 2009 was due to lower fuel and energy prices. The increase in fuel and energy charges in 2008 reflects higher fuel and energy prices of approximately $224 million, partly offset by approximately $194 million attributable to lower energy sales. 34 FPLs O&M expenses increased $58 million in 2009 reflecting higher insurance and employee benefit costs of approximately $51 million and $44 million, respectively, partly offset by lower distribution, nuclear and fossil generation costs of $26 million, $18 million and $10 million, respectively. The increase in insurance costs is primarily due to the absence of a refund associated with an environmental insurance policy termination, which occurred in 2008, as well as higher nuclear insurance costs. The increase in employee benefit costs is primarily due to higher medical costs, a lower pension credit and other costs driven by market conditions. The decrease in distribution costs reflects deferred projects and productivity improvements. The decline in nuclear generation costs reflects a reimbursement of prior years costs related to the spent fuel settlement agreement and lower costs related to 2008 plant improvement initiatives partly offset by higher refueling and maintenance outage costs. The decline in fossil generation costs is primarily due to lower overhaul costs, partly offset by additional costs related to WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2. Other changes in O&M expenses were primarily driven by pass through costs which did not significantly affect net income. Management expects O&M expenses, excluding pass through O&M costs, in 2010 to exceed the 2009 level primarily due to higher nuclear and fossil generation, transmission and distribution costs, as well as higher employee benefit and nuclear insurance costs and the absence of the reimbursement of prior years costs related to the spent fuel settlement agreement. Beginning in 2009, FPL records, as other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, operating costs expected to be reimbursed under the spent fuel settlement agreement. FPLs O&M expenses decreased $16 million in 2008 reflecting lower insurance, employee benefit and distribution costs of approximately $47 million, $11 million and $10 million, respectively. These decreases were partly offset by higher nuclear generation, fossil generation, transmission and customer service costs of approximately $21 million, $4 million, $3 million and $20 million, respectively, as well as a reserve for regulatory matters. The decline in insurance costs was primarily due to the termination by mutual agreement of an environmental insurance policy. The decline in employee benefit costs reflects a higher pension credit as well as lower benefits due to declining market conditions, partly offset by higher medical costs. The decline in distribution costs reflects cost reduction efforts and efficiencies as well as reduced work load due to the decline in customer growth, partly offset by severance costs incurred in 2008. The increase in nuclear generation costs reflects plant improvement initiatives to ensure long term reliable operations. The fossil generation increase reflects costs associated with plant maintenance, while the transmission increase reflects additional improvement activities. The customer service cost increase is primarily due to higher uncollectible accounts. Other changes in O&M expenses were primarily driven by pass through costs which did not significantly affect net income. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 increased $237 million reflecting the amortization of approximately $203 million of pre construction costs associated with FPLs planned nuclear units recovered under the nuclear cost recovery rule, higher depreciation on transmission and distribution facilities (collectively, approximately $21 million) and depreciation of $17 million on WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2, which were placed in service in 2009. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 increased $14 million, reflecting higher depreciation on transmission and distribution facilities (collectively, approximately $20 million) and higher depreciation on fossil generation assets of $10 million, primarily Turkey Point Unit No. 5 which was placed in service in 2007. In addition, depreciation on nuclear assets was higher by approximately $4 million primarily due to the steam generator and reactor vessel head replacements at St. Lucie Unit No. 2. These increases were partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense of $11 million primarily due to the absence of amortization of software and other property that has been fully amortized. Other changes in depreciation and amortization expense were primarily driven by pass through costs, other than costs associated with the nuclear cost recovery rule, which did not significantly affect net income. In 2010, FPL will begin amortizing over four years approximately $895 million of a depreciation reserve surplus as required by the January 2010 rate ruling. The $125 million reduction in annual depreciation and amortization expense that FPL has been recording since 2002 as permitted by the FPSC will cease in 2010. Also, depreciation and amortization expense in 2010 is expected to be affected by a reduction in nuclear cost recovery rule amortization primarily as a result of the timing of expenditures. See Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. Taxes other than income taxes and other increased $24 million and $40 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to changes in franchise fees and revenue taxes, which are pass through costs, and higher property taxes ($14 million and $15 million, respectively), reflecting growth in plant in service balances. The increase in franchise fees in 2008 was primarily driven by higher average franchise rates. Interest expense for 2009 reflects a decline in average interest rates of approximately 29 basis points, partly offset by higher average debt balances. Interest expense for 2008 reflects higher average debt balances, partly offset by a decline in average interest rates of approximately 34 basis points. Interest expense on storm recovery bonds, as well as certain other interest expense (collectively, clause interest), are essentially pass through amounts and do not significantly affect net income, as the clause interest is recovered either under cost recovery clause mechanisms or through a storm recovery bond surcharge. Clause interest for 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to approximately $45 million, $44 million and $32 million, respectively. For both 2009 and 2008, interest expense was reduced by higher allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (see AFUDC equity explanation below). The increase in AFUDC equity for 2009 and 2008 is primarily attributable to additional AFUDC equity on three natural gas fired combined cycle units of approximately 1,220 mw each at WCEC, partly offset, in 2008, by the absence of AFUDC equity on Turkey Point Unit No. 5 and the steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement projects at St. Lucie Unit No. 2. 35 Interest income declined in 2009 primarily due to lower average investment balances and lower interest rates. The decline in 2008 reflects the cessation of interest on FPLs unrecovered balance of the storm reserve deficiency, which balance was collected upon the issuance of the storm recovery bonds in 2007, partly offset by higher interest income earned on higher average investment balances. FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers. The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions. In 2009, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPLs total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier. Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in Florida in the near future. If the basis of regulation for some or all of FPLs business changes from cost based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Regulatory Accounting. FPL is currently constructing a natural gas fired combined cycle unit of approximately 1,220 mw at its WCEC, which is expected to be placed in service by mid 2011. In addition, FPL is in the process of adding approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity at its existing nuclear units at St. Lucie and Turkey Point, which additional capacity is projected to be placed in service by the end of 2012. NextEra Energy Resources NextEra Energy Resources net income for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $849 million, $915 million and $540 million, respectively, a decrease in 2009 of $66 million and an increase in 2008 of $375 million. The primary drivers, on an after tax basis, of these changes were as follows: Increase (Decrease) From Prior Period Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (millions) New investments (a) $ 176 $ 155 Existing assets (a) (171 ) 48 Full energy and capacity requirements services and trading 78 6 Asset sales 6 5 Interest expense, differential membership costs and other (28 ) (25 ) Change in unrealized mark to market non qualifying hedge activity (b) (190 ) 256 Change in OTTI losses on securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds, net of OTTI reversals 63 (70 ) Net income increase (decrease) $ (66 ) $ 375 (a) Includes PTCs and ITCs on wind projects and ITCs on solar projects and, for new investments, deferred tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs (see Note 1 Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization, Note 1 Income Taxes and Note 6) but does not include allocation of interest expense or corporate general and administrative expenses. Results from new projects are included in new investments during the first twelve months of operation. A projects results are included in existing assets beginning with the thirteenth month of operation. (b) For discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 3 and Overview. The increase in NextEra Energy Resources 2009 results from new investments reflects the addition of over 2,490 mw of wind generation during or after 2008. In addition, results from new investments for the year ended December 31, 2009 include approximately $87 million of deferred tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs. The increase in NextEra Energy Resources 2008 results from new investments reflects the addition of over 3,200 mw of wind and nuclear generation during or after 2007. In 2009, results from NextEra Energy Resources existing asset portfolio decreased approximately $110 million primarily due to unfavorable results in the ERCOT and NEPOOL regions due primarily to unfavorable market conditions, lower results of $75 million associated with existing wind projects primarily due to a lower wind resource across the portfolio and lower results of $36 million from the contracted portfolio, partially offset by higher results ($42 million) from NextEra Energy Resources retail energy provider due to favorable residential margins, a state tax benefit related to a change in state tax law on certain wind projects and favorable results at Seabrook primarily due to higher prices. A planned and unplanned outage at Seabrook in the fourth quarter of 2009 was substantially offset by planned and unplanned outages in 2008. In 2008, results from NextEra Energy Resources existing asset portfolio increased approximately $76 million due to favorable results in the NEPOOL, ERCOT and PJM regions reflecting favorable market conditions, favorable hydro resource and favorable hedge pricing partially offset by the impact of planned and unplanned outages at the Seabrook nuclear facility. In addition, the existing wind portfolio experienced a favorable wind resource. These factors were partially offset by lower results of approximately $14 million from NextEra Energy Resources retail energy provider primarily due to unfavorable commodity margins. Results in 2008 in PJM benefited from a new FERC approved forward capacity market that began in June 2007. 36 NextEra Energy Resources 2009 and 2008 financial results benefited from increased gains from its full energy and capacity requirements services and trading activities. Full energy and capacity requirements services include load following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary services. Asset sales in 2009 represent the sale of wind development rights, the sale of a 50 mw wind project and the sale of an interest in a waste to energy project, which contained an option for the buyer to sell the project back to NextEra Energy Resources. An additional after tax gain of approximately $11 million on the waste to energy project has been recorded in 2010 when the buyers option expired. Asset sales in 2008 reflect a gain on the sale of development rights on a natural gas project. In both 2009 and 2008, interest expense, differential membership costs and other reflects increased costs due to growth of the business partially offset in 2008 by certain state income tax benefits. In 2009, an approximately $18 million income tax benefit from a reduction of previously deferred income taxes resulting from an additional equity investment in Canadian operations was offset by other income tax expenses in 2009 and the absence of other income tax benefits recorded in the prior year. In 2009 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources recorded net unrealized after tax losses from non qualifying hedges of approximately $20 million and $86 million, respectively. In 2008, NextEra Energy Resources recorded net unrealized mark to market after tax gains from non qualifying hedges of approximately $170 million. The change in unrealized mark to market activity is primarily attributable to changes in forward power and natural gas prices, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark to market gains or losses as the underlying transactions were realized. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources recorded $36 million, $82 million and $6 million, respectively, of after tax OTTI losses on securities held in its nuclear decommissioning funds. In 2009 and 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had approximately $23 million and $6 million, respectively, of after tax OTTI reversals; there were no such OTTI reversals in 2007. Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $573 million primarily due to losses of $88 million on unrealized mark to market non qualifying hedge activity in 2009 compared to gains on such hedges of $232 million in 2008. Excluding this mark to market activity, revenues were affected by unfavorable market conditions in the NEPOOL, ERCOT and PJM regions and an unfavorable wind resource, partly offset by higher operating revenues at PMI and NextEra Energy Resources retail energy provider (collectively, approximately $384 million) and project additions ($131 million). Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $1,096 million primarily due to gains of $232 million on unrealized mark to market non qualifying hedge activity in 2008 compared to losses on such hedges of $342 million in 2007. Excluding this mark to market activity, revenues benefited from project additions, favorable market conditions in the NEPOOL, ERCOT and PJM regions, and favorable wind and hydro resources (collectively, $587 million) partially offset by nuclear planned and unplanned outages of approximately $65 million. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $291 million primarily due to lower fuel costs of approximately $390 million partially offset by project additions of $94 million and higher corporate general and administrative expenses of $12 million to support the growth in the business. In addition, operating expenses reflect $60 million of unrealized mark to market gains from non qualifying hedges compared to $53 million of such gains in 2008. Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $522 million, reflecting $53 million of unrealized mark to market gains from non qualifying hedges compared to $198 million of gains on such hedges in 2007. Excluding these mark to market changes, which are reflected in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income, operating expenses increased primarily due to project additions, higher fuel costs and higher corporate general and administrative expenses to support the growth in the business. Equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2009 decreased $41 million due to unfavorable market conditions and the absence of certain favorable contractual provisions which benefited the prior periods at a project in the PJM region. Equity in earnings of equity method investees in 2008 increased $25 million due to improved market conditions in the PJM region. NextEra Energy Resources interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $43 million due to increased borrowings to support the growth of the business, partially offset by a decrease in interest rates of approximately 37 basis points. NextEra Energy Resources interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased $1 million. Gains on disposal of assets net in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income for 2009 reflect $56 million of gains on sales of securities held in NextEra Energy Resources nuclear decommissioning funds and in 2008 reflect an approximately $10 million gain on the sale of development rights related to a natural gas project and $8 million of gains on sales of securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds. PTCs from NextEra Energy Resources wind projects are reflected in NextEra Energy Resources earnings. PTCs are recognized as wind energy is generated and sold based on a per kwh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes, and amounted to approximately $255 million, $262 million and $219 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, FPL Groups effective income tax rate for year ended December 31, 2009 was affected by deferred tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs of $88 million. See Note 6. 37 NextEra Energy Resources expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from wind and solar development and from asset acquisitions. NextEra Energy Resources added approximately 1,170 mw of wind generation in 2009, of which 985 mw were constructed and 185 mw were from three operating wind projects purchased in the fourth quarter of 2009. NextEra Energy Resources expects to add approximately 1,000 mw of new wind generation in 2010 and 1,000 mw to 1,500 mw in each of 2011 and 2012. In addition, NextEra Energy Resources intends to pursue opportunities for new solar generating facilities. The wind and solar expansions are subject to, among other things, continued public policy support, support for the construction and availability of sufficient transmission facilities and capacity, continued market demand, supply chain expansion and access to capital at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. Currently, in the United States, 31 states have RPS requiring electricity providers in the state to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. These standards vary by state, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. NextEra Energy Resources believes that these standards will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future. Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary among and within geographic regions. Revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services. Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from regulated utilities and new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth, environmental requirements and exposure to legal and regulatory changes. Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NextEra Energy Resources. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets. NextEra Energy Resources seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants. The combination of new wind and solar projects and asset acquisitions are expected to be the key drivers supporting NextEra Energy Resources growth over the next few years. NextEra Energy Resources earnings are subject to variability due to, among other things, operational performance, commodity price exposure, counterparty performance, weather conditions and project restructuring activities. NextEra Energy Resources exposure to commodity price risk is reduced by the degree of contract coverage obtained for 2010 and 2011. Therefore, if NextEra Energy Resources plants do not perform as expected, NextEra Energy Resources could be required to purchase power at potentially higher market prices to meet its contractual obligations. In addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices and demand, changes in weather affect production levels of the wind portfolio as well as the hydro units in Maine and the solar units in California. In managing its exposure to commodity prices, NextEra Energy Resources is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their contractual obligations. NextEra Energy Resources actively manages the trade off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with individual counterparties as a function of their creditworthiness. As of December 31, 2009, substantially all of NextEra Energy Resources 2010 contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of interest expense, the operating results of FPL FiberNet and other business activities as well as corporate interest income and expenses. Corporate and Other allocates interest expense to NextEra Energy Resources based on a deemed capital structure at NextEra Energy Resources of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for projects under construction. For these purposes, the deferred credit associated with differential membership interests sold by a NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary in December 2007 is included with debt. Each subsidiarys income taxes are calculated based on the "separate return method," except that tax benefits that could not be used on a separate return basis, but are used on the consolidated tax return, are recorded by the subsidiary that generated the tax benefits. Any remaining consolidated income tax benefits or expenses are recorded at Corporate and Other. The major components of Corporate and Others results, on an after tax basis, are as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (millions) Interest expense, net of allocations to NextEra Energy Resources $ (109 ) $ (103 ) $ (90 ) Interest income 34 22 22 Federal and state income tax benefits 18 3 Other 10 (2 ) 1 Net loss $ (65 ) $ (65 ) $ (64 ) 38 The increase in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 reflects additional debt outstanding, partly offset by a higher allocation of interest costs to NextEra Energy Resources and lower average interest rates of approximately 66 basis points and 91 basis points, respectively. The increase in interest income in 2009 is primarily due to earnings on an energy related loan made to a third party by an FPL Group Capital subsidiary. Interest income in 2008 reflects lower interest rates on temporary investments offset by additional earnings on energy related loans made to third parties by FPL Group Capital subsidiaries. The federal and state income tax benefits reflect consolidating income tax adjustments. Other includes all other corporate income and expenses, as well as other business activities. The increase in other primarily reflects realized and unrealized gains on investments which are reflected in other net in the consolidated statements of income. Liquidity and Capital Resources FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, to pay maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, to redeem or repurchase outstanding debt or equity securities. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated funds, borrowings, and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity securities, consistent with FPL Groups and FPLs objective of maintaining, on a long term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital access the credit and capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise short and long term capital, their cost of capital and the execution of their respective financing strategies, and could require the posting of additional collateral under certain agreements. In January 2010, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) placed FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and FPL on negative credit watch with the possibility of a credit ratings downgrade. The rating agencies indicated their review for potential downgrade of the ratings is prompted by, among other things, the heightened risk to investors caused by a decline in the regulatory environment for investor owned utilities operating in Florida and continued challenging economic conditions throughout Florida. FPL Group and FPL are unable to predict whether or when a credit ratings downgrade may occur. See Credit Ratings below. The global and domestic credit and capital markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in the recent past. This significantly affected the cost and available sources of liquidity in the financial markets. FPL and FPL Group Capital have continued to have access to commercial paper and short and long term credit and capital markets. If capital and credit market conditions change, this could alter spending plans at FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. Available Liquidity At December 31, 2009, FPL Groups total net available liquidity was approximately $4.4 billion, of which FPLs portion was approximately $2.0 billion. The components of each companys net available liquidity at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Maturity Date FPL FPL Group Capital FPL Group Consoli dated FPL FPL Group Capital (millions) Bank revolving lines of credit (a) $ 2,473 $ 3,917 $ 6,390 (b) (b) Less letters of credit (3 ) (492 ) (495 ) 2,470 3,425 5,895 Revolving term loan facility 250 250 2011 Less borrowings 250 250 Subtotal 2,720 3,425 6,145 Cash and cash equivalents 83 155 238 Less commercial paper (818 ) (1,202 ) (2,020 ) Net available liquidity $ 1,985 $ 2,378 $ 4,363 (a) Provide for the issuance of letters of credit up to $6,390 million ($2,473 million for FPL) and are available to support FPLs and FPL Group Capitals commercial paper programs and short term borrowings and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies or their subsidiaries operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and distribution property loss), as well as for general corporate purposes. FPLs bank revolving lines of credit are also available to support the purchase of $633 million of pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds (tax exempt bonds) in the event they are tendered by individual bond holders and not remarketed prior to maturity. (b) $17 million of FPLs and $40 million of FPL Group Capitals bank revolving lines of credit expire in 2012. The remaining portion of bank revolving lines of credit for FPL and FPL Group Capital expire in 2013. 39 As of February 25, 2010, 37 banks participate in FPLs and FPL Group Capitals credit facilities and FPLs revolving term loan facility, with no one bank providing more than 8% of the combined credit facilities and FPLs revolving term loan facility. In order for FPL Group Capital to borrow under the terms of its credit facility, FPL Group (which guarantees the payment of FPL Group Capitals credit facility pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement) is required to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio. The FPL Group Capital credit facility also contains default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL Group to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the specified ratio. Similarly, in order for FPL to borrow under the terms of its credit facility and revolving term loan facility, FPL is required to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio. The FPL credit facility and revolving term loan facility also contain default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the specified ratio. At December 31, 2009, each of FPL Group and FPL was in compliance with its required ratio. In January 2009, FPL Group entered into an agreement under which FPL Group may offer and sell, from time to time, FPL Group common stock having a gross sales price of up to $400 million. During 2009, FPL Group received gross proceeds through the sale and issuance of common stock under this agreement of approximately $160 million consisting of 2,890,000 shares at an average price of $55.53 per share. At December 31, 2009, FPL had the capacity to absorb up to approximately $198 million in future prudently incurred storm restoration costs without seeking recovery through a rate adjustment from the FPSC. Also, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources has established an $80 million letter of credit facility which expires in 2017 and serves as security for certain obligations under commodity hedge agreements entered into by the subsidiary. Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Guarantees FPL Group and FPL obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, and issue guarantees to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. At December 31, 2009, FPL Group had approximately $751 million of standby letters of credit ($14 million for FPL), approximately $95 million of surety bonds ($55 million for FPL) and approximately $8.9 billion notional amount of guarantees ($648 million for FPL), of which approximately $6.6 billion ($24 million for FPL) letters of credit and guarantees have expirations within the next five years. An aggregate of approximately $495 million ($3 million for FPL) of the standby letters of credit at December 31, 2009 were issued under FPLs and FPL Group Capitals credit facilities. See Available Liquidity above. Letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees support, among other things, the buying and selling of wholesale energy commodities, debt and related reserves, capital expenditures for wind development, nuclear activities, the commercial paper program of FPLs consolidated VIE from which it leases nuclear fuel and other contractual agreements. Each of FPL Group and FPL believe it is unlikely that it would incur any liabilities associated with these letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. Accordingly, at December 31, 2009, FPL Group and FPL did not have any liabilities recorded for these letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. In addition, FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including most of its debt and all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment guarantees, and FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of NextEra Energy Resources and its subsidiaries. See Note 14 Commitments. Due to fluctuations in the value of investments held in the nuclear decommissioning fund for Duane Arnold, the balance in that fund is at certain times below the NRC minimum funding requirement and could require posting of additional amounts to meet that requirement. As required by the NRC, in November 2009, NextEra Energy Resources submitted its proposed plan to the NRC for providing financial assurance for decommissioning funding for Duane Arnold, including the proposed elimination of the existing $93 million parent company guaranty for decommissioning. The ultimate amount of the guarantee for NextEra Energy Resources decommissioning obligations for Duane Arnold, if any, could vary depending on the market performance of the investments held in the nuclear decommissioning fund and on the NRCs position on NextEra Energy Resources proposed plan. Shelf Registration In August 2009, FPL Group, FPL Group Capital, FPL and certain affiliated trusts filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified amount of securities. The amount of securities issuable by the companies is established from time to time by their respective boards of directors. As of February 25, 2010, securities that may be issued under the registration statement, which became effective upon filing, include, depending on the registrant, senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debentures, first mortgage bonds, preferred trust securities, common stock, preferred stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, warrants and guarantees related to certain of those securities. As of February 25, 2010, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital had approximately $1.7 billion (issuable by either or both of them up to such aggregate amount) of board authorized available capacity, and FPL had $0.5 billion of board authorized available capacity. 40 Credit Ratings At February 25, 2010, Moodys, S&P and Fitch had assigned the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital: Moodys (a) S&P (a) Fitch (a) FPL Group: (b) Corporate credit rating A2 A A FPL: (b) Corporate credit rating A1 A A First mortgage bonds Aa2 A AA Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds VMIG 1 A A+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 FPL Group Capital: (b) Corporate credit rating A2 A A Debentures A2 A A Junior subordinated debentures A3 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P 1 A 1 F1 (a) A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. (b) In January 2010, FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital were placed on a negative credit watch with the possibility of a credit ratings downgrade by each of Moodys, S&P and Fitch. FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities maintained by FPL and FPL Group Capital, the maintenance of a specific minimum credit rating is not a condition to drawing on those credit facilities. Commitment fees and interest rates on loans under the credit facilities agreements are tied to credit ratings. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper and other short term debt issuances and additional or replacement credit facilities. In addition, a ratings downgrade could result in the requirement that FPL Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain agreements, including those related to fuel procurement, power sales and purchases, nuclear decommissioning funding, debt related reserves and trading activities. If FPLs credit rating was downgraded by one or two levels, it would not be required to post additional collateral under these agreements. If FPL Group Capitals credit rating was downgraded to BBB+/Baa1, which is a one level downgrade for S&P and a two level downgrade for Moodys and Fitch, FPL Group Capital would be required to post additional collateral of approximately $150 million. FPLs and FPL Group Capitals bank revolving lines of credit are available to support the potential requirements discussed above. See Available Liquidity above. Cash Flow The changes in cash and cash equivalents are summarized as follows: FPL Group FPL Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 (millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,463 $ 3,403 $ 3,593 $ 2,871 $ 2,180 $ 2,163 Net cash used in investing activities (5,935 ) (5,808 ) (4,578 ) (2,726 ) (2,427 ) (2,214 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,175 2,650 655 (182 ) 304 50 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (297 ) $ 245 $ (330 ) $ (37 ) $ 57 $ (1 ) FPL Groups cash and cash equivalents decreased for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflecting capital investments by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, the payment of common stock dividends to FPL Group shareholders and margin cash collateral provided to NextEra Energy Resources counterparties. These outflows were partially offset by cash generated by operating activities, net issuances of both long and short term debt and the issuance of common stock. FPL Groups cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect cash generated by net income and the overrecovery of fuel costs by FPL in 2009, as well as the recovery of prior period deferrals. These inflows were partially offset by margin cash collateral provided to NextEra Energy Resources counterparties as a result of changing energy prices. 41 FPL Groups cash flows from investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect capital investments, including nuclear fuel purchases, of approximately $2.7 billion by FPL to expand and enhance its electric system and generating facilities to continue to provide reliable service to meet the power needs of present and future customers and investments in independent power projects of approximately $3.2 billion by NextEra Energy Resources. FPL Groups cash flows from investing activities also include the cash grants under the Recovery Act, the receipt of funds from the spent fuel settlement agreement, the purchase and sale of restricted securities held in the special use funds, including the reinvestment of fund earnings and new contributions by NextEra Energy Resources, as well as other investment activity, primarily at FPL Group Capital. In 2010, FPL Group expects to receive approximately $417 million ($44 million at FPL) in cash grants under the Recovery Act for energy projects placed in service in 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, FPL Group generated proceeds from financing activities, net of related issuance costs, of approximately $3.6 billion, including a net increase in short term debt of $154 million (comprised of $109 million and $45 million at FPL Group Capital and FPL, respectively), $198 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock, primarily under FPL Groups continuous offering agreement (see Available Liquidity above), and the following long term debt issuances and borrowings: Date Issued Company Debt Issued Interest Rate Principal Amount Maturity Date(s) (millions) January 2009 NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary Canadian dollar denominated limited recourse senior secured term loan Variable $ 76 2023 (a) January 2009 FPL Group Capital Term loan Variable 72 2011 March 2009 FPL Group Capital Debentures 6.00% 500 2019 March 2009 FPL First mortgage bonds 5.96% 500 2039 March 2009 FPL Group Capital Junior subordinated debentures 8.75% 375 2069 March 2009 NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary Limited recourse senior secured notes Variable 22 2016 (b) May 2009 NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary Limited recourse senior secured term loan Variable 343 2017 (b) May 2009 FPL Group Capital Debentures related to FPL Groups equity units 3.60% 350 2014 June 2009 FPL Group Capital Japanese yen denominated term loan Variable 146 2011 June 2009 FPL Group Capital Term loan Variable 50 2011 October 2009 FPL Group Capital subsidiary Senior secured bonds 7.500% 500 2030 (b)(c) November 2009 FPL Group Capital Debentures Variable 200 2012 December 2009 NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary Limited recourse senior secured term loan Variable 130 2019 (b) $ 3,264 (a) Proceeds from this loan were used to repay a portion of the NextEra Energy Resources subsidiarys Canadian dollar denominated variable rate term loan maturing in 2011. In March 2009, the remaining balance of the term loan maturing in 2011 was paid off. (b) Partially amortizing with a balloon payment at maturity. (c) Collateralized by a third party note receivable held by a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital. During the year ended December 31, 2009, FPL Group paid approximately $2.4 billion in connection with financing activities, including $725 million for FPL Group Capital debt maturities, $225 million for maturing FPL first mortgage bonds, approximately $441 million of NextEra Energy Resources debt payments including principal prepayment on a term loan and principal payments, approximately $205 million of FPL Group Capital debt payments including principal prepayment on a term loan and repurchase of junior subordinated debentures, approximately $38 million principal payment on storm recovery bonds and $766 million for the payment of dividends on FPL Groups common stock. In February 2010, FPL issued $500 million principal amount of 5.69% first mortgage bonds maturing 2040. In 2008, FPL entered into a reclaimed water agreement with Palm Beach County (PBC) to provide FPLs WCEC with reclaimed water beginning in January 2011. Under the reclaimed water agreement, FPL is to construct a reclaimed water system, including modifications to an existing treatment plant and a water pipeline, that PBC will legally own and operate. The reclaimed water agreement also requires PBC to issue bonds for the purpose of paying the costs associated with the construction of the reclaimed water system. In July 2009, PBC issued approximately $68 million principal amount of bonds. For financial reporting purposes, FPL is considered the owner of the reclaimed water system and FPL and FPL Group are recording electric utility plant in service and other property as costs are incurred and long term debt as costs are eligible for reimbursement by PBC to FPL. See Note 12. During the year ended December 31, 2009, indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources and FPL Group Capital entered into interest rate swap agreements. See Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. FPL Groups cash and cash equivalents increased for the year ended December 31, 2008, reflecting cash generated by operating activities and net issuances of both long and short term debt. These inflows were partially offset by capital investments by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, the payment of common stock dividends to FPL Group shareholders and the funding of a $500 million loan. 42 FPL Groups cash and cash equivalents decreased for the year ended December 31, 2007, reflecting capital investments by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, the payment of common stock dividends to FPL Group shareholders and an increase in customer receivables. These outflows were partially offset by cash generated by operating activities, net issuances of both long and short term debt, the sale of independent power investments, the return of margin cash collateral from counterparties and a distribution relating to an Indonesian project. Contractual Obligations and Estimated Planned Capital Expenditures FPL Groups and FPLs commitments at December 31, 2009 were as follows: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (millions) Long term debt, including interest: (a) FPL $ 335 $ 339 $ 341 $ 732 $ 323 $ 10,314 (b) $ 12,384 NextEra Energy Resources 601 593 622 648 455 3,487 6,406 Corporate and Other 557 2,202 517 565 637 12,962 17,440 Purchase obligations: FPL (c) 5,510 4,555 2,690 2,310 2,115 7,085 24,265 NextEra Energy Resources (d) 1,710 220 225 80 60 795 3,090 Asset retirement activities: (e) FPL (f) 11,797 11,797 NextEra Energy Resources (g) 2 7,343 7,345 Other Commitments: NextEra Energy Resources (h) 68 70 210 348 Total $ 8,713 $ 7,909 $ 4,397 $ 4,403 $ 3,660 $ 53,993 $ 83,075 (a) Includes principal, interest and interest rate swaps. Variable rate interest was computed using December 31, 2009 rates. (b) Includes $633 million of tax exempt bonds that permit individual bond holders to tender the bonds for purchase at any time prior to maturity. In the event bonds are tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a designated remarketing agent in accordance with the related indenture. If the remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required to purchase the tax exempt bonds. As of December 31, 2009, all tax exempt bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully remarketed. FPLs bank revolving lines of credit are available to support the purchase of tax exempt bonds. (c) Represents required capacity and minimum payments under long term purchased power and fuel contracts, the majority of which are recoverable through various cost recovery clauses (see Note 14 Contracts), and projected capital expenditures through 2014. See Note 14 Commitments. (d) Represents firm commitments primarily in connection with the purchase of wind turbines and towers, solar project components and related construction activities, natural gas transportation, purchase and storage, firm transmission service and nuclear fuel. See Note 14 Commitments and Contracts. (e) Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. (f) At December 31, 2009, FPL had approximately $2,285 million in restricted funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPLs nuclear units, which are included in FPL Groups and FPLs special use funds. (g) At December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources 88.23% portion of Seabrooks and 70% portion of Duane Arnolds and its Point Beachs restricted funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission its nuclear units totaled approximately $982 million and are included in FPL Groups special use funds. (h) Represents estimated cash distributions related to certain membership interests. See Note 10 Sale of Differential Membership Interests. Covenants FPL Groups charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. During the first quarter of 2009, FPL Group increased the quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.445 to $0.4725 per share. In February 2010, FPL Group announced that it would increase the quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.4725 to $0.50 per share. FPL pays dividends to FPL Group in a manner consistent with FPLs long term targeted capital structure. The mortgage securing FPLs first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to FPL Group and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. In light of FPLs current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. Under the mortgage, in some cases, the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock is restricted. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPLs use of retained earnings. As of December 31, 2009, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage. FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPLs first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non junior FPL indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, after giving effect to the February 2010 issuance of the $500 million 5.69% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2040, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 would have been approximately 6.2 times the annual interest requirements and approximately 3.6 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. As of December 31, 2009, after giving effect to the February 2010 issuance of the $500 million 5.69% first mortgage bonds maturing in 2040, FPL could have issued in excess of $7.4 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded property additions and in excess of $5.8 billion based on retired first mortgage bonds. As of December 31, 2009, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. 43 In September 2006, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (September 2006 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capitals offering of $350 million principal amount of Series A Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 and $350 million principal amount of Series B Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (collectively, Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures). The September 2006 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long term indebtedness (covered debt) of FPL Group Capital (other than the Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust Is 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the September 2006 RCC. The September 2006 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may redeem, and FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures on or before October 1, 2036, only to the extent that the redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount of proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2006 RCC. Qualifying securities are securities that have equity like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity like than, the Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption or purchase, which are sold within 180 days prior to the date of the redemption or repurchase of the Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures. In June 2007, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (June 2007 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capitals offering of $400 million principal amount of its Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series C junior subordinated debentures). The June 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of FPL Group Capital (other than the Series C junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust Is 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the June 2007 RCC. The June 2007 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may redeem or purchase, or satisfy, discharge or defease (collectively, defease), and FPL Group and any majority owned subsidiary of FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series C junior subordinated debentures on or before June 15, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 180 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series C junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the June 2007 RCC. In September 2007, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (September 2007 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capitals offering of $250 million principal amount of its Series D Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 and $350 million principal amount of Series E Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (collectively, Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures). The September 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of FPL Group Capital (other than the Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust Is 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the September 2007 RCC. The September 2007 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may redeem, purchase, or defease, and FPL Group and any majority owned subsidiary of FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures on or before September 1, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 180 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2007 RCC. In March 2009, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (March 2009 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capitals offering of $375 million principal amount of its Series F Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2069. The March 2009 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of FPL Group Capital (other than the Series F junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust Is 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the March 2009 RCC. The March 2009 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may redeem, purchase, or defease, and FPL Group and any majority owned subsidiary of FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series F junior subordinated debentures on or before March 1, 2039, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 180 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series F junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the March 2009 RCC. New Accounting Rules and Interpretations Variable Interest Entities In 2009, new accounting guidance was issued which modifies the consolidation model in previous guidance and expands the required disclosures related to VIEs. The new accounting guidance became effective on January 1, 2010. FPL Group and FPL are currently evaluating the impact of the new accounting guidance. 44 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates FPL Groups and FPLs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Critical accounting policies are those that FPL Group and FPL believe are both most important to the portrayal of their financial condition and results of operations, and require complex, subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. FPL Group and FPL consider the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing their consolidated financial statements: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with long term debt. In addition, FPL Group, through NextEra Energy Resources, uses derivatives to optimize the value of power generation assets. NextEra Energy Resources provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load following services and various ancillary services, in certain markets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer term contracts where liquid markets are not available are based on internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity and fuel. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. The near term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the contract. Substantially all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled. Upon settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel or capacity clauses. In FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly NextEra Energy Resources, changes in derivative fair values are recognized in current earnings, unless the criteria for hedge accounting are met and the company elects to account for the derivative as a hedge. For those transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges, much of the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of common shareholders equity, rather than being recognized in current earnings. For those transactions accounted for as fair value hedges, the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in current earnings offset by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. Much of the existing accounting guidance related to derivatives focuses on when certain contracts for the purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded from derivative accounting rules, however the guidance does not address all contract issues. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying derivatives accounting guidance to contracts. In the event changes in interpretation occur, it is possible that contracts that currently are excluded from derivatives accounting rules would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in the statement of income. Certain economic hedging transactions at NextEra Energy Resources do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the statement of income, often resulting in earnings volatility. These changes in fair value are captured in the non qualifying hedge category in computing adjusted earnings. This could be significant to NextEra Energy Resources results because often the economic offset to the positions which are required to be marked to market (such as the physical assets from which power is generated) are not marked to market. As a consequence, net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically linked transactions. Because of this, FPL Groups management views results expressed excluding the unrealized mark to market impact of the non qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3 and also see Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. 45 Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits FPL Group sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries. FPL Group also has a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) which includes a non qualified supplemental defined benefit pension component that provides benefits to a select group of management and highly compensated employees. The impact of the SERP component is included within the pension plan as discussed below. In addition to pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a contributory postretirement plan for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits plan) for retirees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility requirements. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing the benefits under the plan. The other benefits plan has a partially funded trust dedicated to providing benefits related to life insurance. FPL Group allocates net periodic benefit income or cost associated with the pension and other benefits plans to its subsidiaries annually using specific criteria. Effective December 31, 2006, FPL Group adopted new recognition and disclosure provisions regarding benefit plans which require recognition of the funded status of benefit plans in the balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized in comprehensive income within shareholders equity in the year in which the changes occur. In addition, effective December 31, 2008, the new provisions required FPL Group to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Prior to 2008, FPL Group used a measurement date of September 30. In lieu of remeasuring plan assets and obligations as of January 1, 2008, FPL Group elected to calculate the net periodic benefit (income) cost for the fifteen month period from September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008 using the September 30, 2007 measurement date. Upon adoption of the measurement date provisions, FPL Group recorded an adjustment to increase 2008 beginning retained earnings by approximately $13 million representing three fifteenths of net periodic benefit (income) cost for the fifteen month period from September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008. Included in the adjustment to retained earnings is approximately $1 million related to the reduction in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and approximately $3 million related to the reduction in net regulatory liabilities. Since FPL Group is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, the results of implementing the new accounting provisions are reflected at FPL Group and not allocated to the subsidiaries. The portion of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations related to the recognition provision that were estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic benefit (income) cost in future periods and that otherwise would have been recorded in AOCI were classified as regulatory assets and liabilities at FPL Group in accordance with regulatory treatment. In addition, adjustments to AOCI as a result of implementing the measurement date provisions that were estimated to be allocable to FPL were recorded as an adjustment to the previously established regulatory assets and liabilities. FPL Groups income from its pension plan, net of the cost of the other benefits plan, was approximately $75 million, $86 million and $69 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $50 million, $60 million and $51 million, respectively. Pension income and the cost of the other benefits plan are included in O&M expenses, and are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all years for the pension plan and 8.00% for all years for the other benefits plan, assumed increases in salary of 4.00% for all years, and weighted average discount rates of 6.90%, 6.25% and 5.85% for the pension plan and 6.90%, 6.35% and 5.90% for the other benefits plan for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Based on current health care costs (as related to other benefits), the projected 2010 trend assumption used to measure the expected cost of health care benefits covered by the plans for those under age 65 is 8.00% for medical and 8.50% for prescription drug benefits and for those age 65 and over is 7.50% for medical and 8.00% for prescription drug benefits. These rates are assumed to decrease over the next 9 years for medical benefits and 11 years for prescription drug benefits to the ultimate trend rate of 5.50% and remain at that level thereafter. The ultimate trend rate is assumed to be reached in 2018 for medical benefits and 2020 for prescription drug benefits. In developing these assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as information available in the marketplace. For the expected long term rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10 year and 20 year historical median returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds, as well as its funds historical compounded returns. FPL Group also considered input from its actuaries and consultants, as well as information available in the marketplace. FPL Group believes that 7.75% and 8.00% are reasonable long term rates of return on its pension plan and other benefits plan assets, respectively. FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as necessary. FPL Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits plan expense or income on a market related valuation of assets, which reduces year to year volatility. This market related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five year period following the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market related value of assets and the actual return realized on those assets. Since the market related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five year period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits plan expense and income only to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market related value of assets. 46 The following table illustrates the effect on net periodic benefit income of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant: Decrease in 2009 Net Periodic Benefit Income Change in Assumption FPL Group FPL (millions) Expected long term rate of return (0.5 ) % $ 16 $ 11 Discount rate (0.5 ) % $ 3 $ 2 Salary increase 0.5 % $ 2 $ 1 Health care cost trend rate (a) 1.0 % $ $ (a) Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for postretirement plans providing health care benefits. However, this effect is somewhat mitigated by the retiree cost sharing structure incorporated in FPL Groups other benefits plan. The fair value of plan assets has increased from $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008 to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009 for the pension plan and increased from $29 million at December 31, 2008 to $32 million at December 31, 2009 for the other benefits plan. Management believes that, based on the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. In December 2009, $29 million was transferred from the qualified pension plan as reimbursement for eligible retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group during the year pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. FPL Group anticipates paying approximately $29 million for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the other benefits plan during 2010 with substantially all of that amount being reimbursed through a transfer of assets from the qualified pension plan. See Note 2. Carrying Value of Long Lived Assets FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds the assets fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil Dismantlement FPL Group and FPL each account for asset retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs) under accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived assets. See Note 1 Asset Retirement Obligations, Note 1 Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 13. For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are filed with the FPSC at least every five years. The most recent studies, filed in 2005, indicate that FPLs portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is approximately $10.9 billion, or $2.4 billion in 2009 dollars. The studies reflect, among other things, the 20 year license extensions of FPLs nuclear units. At December 31, 2009, $2,597 million was accrued for nuclear decommissioning, of which $1,807 million was recorded as an ARO, $50 million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $644 million was recorded as a regulatory liability and $196 million was included in accrued asset removal costs (a regulatory liability) on the consolidated balance sheets. FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies, which became effective January 1, 2010, indicated that FPLs portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $894 million, or $467 million expressed in 2009 dollars. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered AROs. At December 31, 2009, $364 million was accrued for fossil dismantlement costs, of which $23 million was recorded as an ARO, $5 million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $28 million was recorded as a regulatory liability and $318 million was included in accrued asset removal costs (a regulatory liability) on the consolidated balance sheets. 47 NextEra Energy Resources records a liability for the present value of its expected decommissioning costs which is determined using various internal and external data. NextEra Energy Resources portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel storage, is estimated to be approximately $6.6 billion, or $1.6 billion expressed in 2009 dollars. The liability is being accreted using the interest method through the date decommissioning activities are expected to be complete. At December 31, 2009, the ARO for nuclear decommissioning of NextEra Energy Resources nuclear plants totaled approximately $518 million. The calculation of the future cost of retiring long lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures and making judgments concerning whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation. Estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures includes, among other things, making projections of when assets will be retired and how costs will escalate with inflation. In addition, FPL Group and FPL also make interest rate and rate of return projections on their investments in determining recommended funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update these estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. For example, an increase of 0.25% in the assumed escalation rates would increase FPL Groups and FPLs ARO as of December 31, 2009 by $235 million and $183 million, respectively. Regulatory Accounting Accounting guidance allows regulators to create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. If FPL were no longer subject to cost based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of regulatory accounting is assessed at each reporting period. FPL Groups and FPLs regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: FPL Group FPL December 31, December 31, 2009 2008 2009 2008 Regulatory assets: (millions) Current: Deferred clause and franchise expenses $ 69 $ 248 $ 69 $ 248 Securitized storm recovery costs $ 69 $ 64 $ 69 $ 64 Derivatives $ 68 $ 1,109 $ 68 $ 1,109 Pension $ $ 19 $ $ Other $ 3 $ 4 $ $ Noncurrent: Securitized storm recovery costs $ 644 $ 697 $ 644 $ 697 Deferred clause expenses $ $ 79 $ $ 79 Pension $ $ 100 $ $ Unamortized loss on reacquired debt $ 29 $ 32 $ 29 $ 32 Other $ 236 $ 138 $ 185 $ 133 Regulatory liabilities: Current: Deferred clause and franchise revenues $ 377 $ 11 $ 377 $ 11 Pension $ 2 $ $ $ Noncurrent: Accrued asset removal costs $ 2,251 $ 2,142 $ 2,251 $ 2,142 Asset retirement obligation regulatory expense difference $ 671 $ 520 $ 671 $ 520 Pension $ 16 $ $ $ Other $ 244 $ 218 $ 244 $ 218 See Note 1 for a discussion of FPL Groups and FPLs other significant accounting policies. 48 Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Energy Marketing and Trading Certain of FPL Groups subsidiaries, including FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. In addition, FPL Group, through NextEra Energy Resources, uses derivatives to optimize the value of power generation assets. NextEra Energy Resources provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load following services and various ancillary services, in certain markets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on FPL Groups and FPLs consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause or the capacity clause. For FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, predominantly NextEra Energy Resources, essentially all changes in the derivatives fair value for power purchases and sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized on a net basis in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in FPL Groups consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is applied. See Note 3. The changes in the fair value of FPL Groups consolidated subsidiaries energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: Hedges on Owned Assets Trading Non Qualifying OCI FPL Cost Recovery Clauses FPL Group Total (millions) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2007 $ 2 $ (138 ) $ (109 ) $ (119 ) $ (364 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts 20 (30 ) 147 (658 ) (521 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 76 76 Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings 25 25 Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 34 286 (331 ) (11 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 56 143 114 (1,108 ) (795 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (160 ) (208 ) (180 ) 1,734 1,186 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 197 197 Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings 28 28 Changes in fair value excluding reclassification to realized 143 163 (690 ) (384 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009 39 126 131 (64 ) 232 Net option premium payments (receipts) (5 ) 16 11 Net margin cash collateral paid 70 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 $ 34 $ 142 $ 131 $ (64 ) $ 313 FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 shown above are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: December 31, 2009 (millions) Current derivative assets $ 357 Noncurrent other assets 264 Current derivative liabilities (170 ) Noncurrent derivative liabilities (138 ) FPL Groups total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ 313 49 The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Maturity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total (millions) Trading: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets $ (152 ) $ (6 ) $ (22 ) $ (17 ) $ $ $ (197 ) Significant other observable inputs (24 ) (33 ) (11 ) 11 (57 ) Significant unobservable inputs 179 68 38 4 (1 ) 288 Total 3 29 5 (2 ) (1 ) 34 Owned Assets Non Qualifying: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets 33 (11 ) (7 ) 15 Significant other observable inputs 30 23 30 (4 ) (8 ) (8 ) 63 Significant unobservable inputs 25 21 6 4 4 4 64 Total 88 33 29 (4 ) (4 ) 142 Owned Assets OCI: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets 24 24 11 59 Significant other observable inputs 70 7 (5 ) 72 Significant unobservable inputs Total 94 31 6 131 Owned Assets FPL Cost Recovery Clauses: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Significant other observable inputs (75 ) (75 ) Significant unobservable inputs 7 4 11 Total (68 ) 4 (64 ) Total sources of fair value $ 117 $ 97 $ 40 $ (2 ) $ (5 ) $ (4 ) $ 243 Market Risk Sensitivity Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL Group and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices or currency exchange rates over the next year. In 2008, FPL Group Capital entered into a cross currency basis swap to hedge against currency movements with respect to both interest and principal payments on a loan and, in June 2009, FPL Group Capital entered into a cross currency swap to hedge against currency and interest rate movements with respect to both interest and principal payments on a loan. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of these cross currency swaps was not material. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage market risks. With respect to commodities, FPL Groups Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC receives periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. FPL Group and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. FPL Group manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. FPL Groups credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Commodity price risk FPL Group uses a value at risk (VaR) model to measure market risk in its trading and mark to market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the VaR figures are as follows: Trading Non Qualifying Hedges and Hedges in OCI and FPL Cost Recovery Clauses (a) Total FPL NextEra Energy Resources FPL Group FPL NextEra Energy Resources FPL Group FPL NextEra Energy Resources FPL Group (millions) December 31, 2008 $ $ 5 $ 5 $ 86 $ 54 $ 31 $ 86 $ 58 $ 30 December 31, 2009 $ $ 2 $ 2 $ 61 $ 51 $ 25 $ 61 $ 51 $ 25 Average for the period ended December 31, 2009 $ $ 5 $ 5 $ 56 $ 42 $ 24 $ 56 $ 45 $ 24 (a) Non qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets or contracts which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non qualifying hedges and hedges in OCI and FPL cost recovery clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. Interest rate risk FPL Group and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their respective issuances of debt, investments in special use funds and other investments. FPL Group and FPL manage their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates, entering into interest rate swaps and adjusting their variable rate debt in relation to total capitalization. 50 The following are estimates of the fair value of FPL Groups and FPLs financial instruments: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value (millions) FPL Group: Fixed income securities: Special use funds $ 1,685 $ 1,685 (a) $ 1,867 $ 1,867 (a) Other investments $ 104 $ 104 (a) $ 105 $ 105 (a) Long term debt, including current maturities $ 16,869 $ 17,256 (b) $ 15,221 $ 15,152 (b) Interest rate swaps net unrealized losses $ (17 ) $ (17 )(c) $ (78 ) $ (78 )(c) FPL: Fixed income securities special use funds $ 1,384 $ 1,384 (a) $ 1,510 $ 1,510 (a) Long term debt, including current maturities $ 5,836 $ 6,055 (b) $ 5,574 $ 5,652 (b) (a) Based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. (b) Based on market prices provided by external sources. (c) Based on market prices modeled internally. The special use funds of FPL Group and FPL consist of restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear power plants. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market value. At FPL, adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. The market value adjustments of FPL Groups non rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI, except for impairments deemed to be other than temporary which are reported in current period earnings. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer term securities, as decommissioning activities are not scheduled to begin until at least 2014 (2032 at FPL). FPL Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to mitigate and adjust interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. At December 31, 2009, the estimated fair value for FPL Groups interest rate swaps was as follows: Notional Amount Effective Date Maturity Date Rate Paid Rate Received Estimated Fair Value (millions) (millions) Fair value hedge FPL Group Capital: $ 300 June 2008 September 2011 Variable (a) 5.625 % $ 14 Cash flow hedges NextEra Energy Resources: $ 52 December 2003 December 2017 4.245 % Variable (b) (2 ) $ 17 April 2004 December 2017 3.845 % Variable (b) (1 ) $ 169 December 2005 November 2019 4.905 % Variable (b) (12 ) $ 430 January 2007 January 2022 5.390 % Variable (c) (38 ) $ 121 January 2008 September 2011 3.2050 % Variable (b) (4 ) $ 348 January 2009 December 2016 2.680 % Variable (b) 8 $ 124 January 2009(d) December 2023 3.725 % Variable (b) 4 $ 85 January 2009 December 2023 2.578 % Variable (e) 6 $ 20 March 2009 December 2016 2.655 % Variable (b) $ 7 March 2009(d) December 2023 3.960 % Variable (b) $ 333 May 2009 May 2017 3.015 % Variable (b) 4 $ 106 May 2009(d) May 2024 4.663 % Variable (b) 2 $ 128 December 2009 December 2019 3.830 % Variable (b) 2 $ 52 December 2009(d) September 2021 5.500 % Variable (b) Total cash flow hedges (31 ) Total interest rate swaps $ (17 ) (a) Three month LIBOR plus 1.18896%. (b) Three month LIBOR. (c) Six month LIBOR. (d) Exchange of payments does not begin until December 2016, December 2016, May 2017 and December 2019, respectively. (e) Three month Bankers Acceptance Rate. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near term market change, the net fair value of FPL Groups net liabilities would increase by approximately $828 million ($325 million for FPL) at December 31, 2009. 51 Equity price risk Included in the nuclear decommissioning reserve funds of FPL Group are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $1,705 million and $1,080 million ($1,024 million and $648 million for FPL) at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near term market change, would result in a $157 million ($94 million for FPL) reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL, or adjustments to OCI for FPL Groups non rate regulated operations, at December 31, 2009. Credit risk For all derivative and contractual transactions, FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations, which includes FPLs energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Relevant considerations when assessing FPL Groups energy marketing and trading operations credit risk exposure include: Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the United States. Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies. Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of margin cash collateral. The use of master netting agreements to offset cash and non cash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. FPL Groups policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. Based on FPL Groups policies and risk exposures related to credit, FPL Group and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial positions as a result of counterparty nonperformance. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 98% of FPL Groups and 100% of FPLs energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have investment grade credit ratings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See Managements Discussion Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity Market Risk Sensitivity. 52 
 
