ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names Bed Bath & Beyond (BBB), Christmas Tree Shops (CTS), Harmon and Harmon Face Values (Harmon) and buybuy BABY. The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise. The Companys objective is to be a customers first choice for products and services in the categories offered, in the markets in which the Company operates. The Companys strategy is to achieve this objective through excellent customer service, an extensive breadth and depth of assortment, everyday low prices, introduction of new merchandising offerings and development of its infrastructure. Operating in the highly competitive retail industry, the Company, along with other retail companies, is influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions including the housing market and fuel costs, unusual weather patterns, consumer preferences and spending habits, competition from existing and potential competitors, and the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Companys expansion program. The Companys fiscal 2007 results reflect the challenges presented by certain macroeconomic conditions, including the economic slowdown, in general; specific issues related to the housing and mortgage industries; and a heightened promotional environment. The following represents an overview of the Companys financial performance for the periods indicated: Net sales in fiscal 2007 (fifty two weeks) increased approximately 6.5% to $7.049 billion; net sales in fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks) increased approximately 13.9% to $6.617 billion over net sales of $5.810 billion in fiscal 2005 (fifty two weeks). Comparable store sales for fiscal 2007 increased by approximately 1.0% as compared with an increase of approximately 4.9% and 4.6% in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Comparable store sales percentages are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks for each annual period. A store is considered a comparable store when it has been open for twelve full months following its grand opening period (typically four to six weeks). Stores relocated or expanded are excluded from comparable store sales if the change in square footage would cause meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. In the case of a store to be closed, such stores sales are not considered comparable once the store closing process has commenced. buybuy BABY is excluded from the comparable store sales percentage for fiscal 2007, but will be included in the Companys comparable store sales calculation starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Gross profit for fiscal 2007 was $2.925 billion or 41.5% of net sales compared with $2.835 billion or 42.8% of net sales for fiscal 2006 and $2.486 billion or 42.8% of net sales for fiscal 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2007 were $2.087 billion or 29.6% of net sales compared with $1.946 billion or 29.4% of net sales for fiscal 2006 and $1.607 billion or 27.7% of net sales for fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 includes a non recurring pre tax charge of $30 million related to the Companys remediation program intended to protect its employees from certain adverse tax consequences arising pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. The effective tax rate was 35.0%, 36.3% and 37.4% for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 14 Net earnings for the fiscal year (fifty two weeks) ended March 1, 2008 were $2.10 per diluted share ($562.8 million), compared to fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks) net earnings of $2.09 per diluted share ($594.2 million), which included a non recurring charge of approximately $.07 per diluted share, and fiscal 2005 (fifty two weeks) net earnings of $1.92 per diluted share ($572.8 million). The increase in net earnings per diluted share for fiscal 2007 includes the impact of the Companys repurchases of its common stock. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 the Companys capital expenditures were $358.2 million, $317.5 million and $220.4 million. Included in fiscal 2007s capital expenditures were costs associated with a new distribution center and a new E service fulfillment center to support the Companys growth. On March 22, 2007, the Company acquired buybuy BABY, a retailer of infant and toddler merchandise for approximately $67 million (net of cash acquired) and repayment of debt of approximately $19 million. The acquisition did not have a material effect on its consolidated results of operations and financial condition for fiscal 2007. Also, in December 2007, the Company opened its first international store in Canada and is actively pursuing its expansion opportunities in Canada. The Company plans to continue to expand its operations and invest in its infrastructure to reach its long term objectives. The Company currently expects to open approximately 50 to 55 new BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada in fiscal 2008. The Company also expects to open approximately 12 new CTS stores and several buybuy BABY stores as well as continue to open new Harmon stores. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth for the periods indicated (i) selected statement of earnings data of the Company expressed as a percentage of net sales and (ii) the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year in selected statement of earnings data: Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Percentage Change of Net Sales from Prior Year March 1, March 3, February 25, March 1, March 3, 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 6.5 % 13.9 % Cost of sales 58.5 57.2 57.2 9.0 13.8 Gross profit 41.5 42.8 42.8 3.2 14.1 Selling, general and administrative expenses 29.6 29.4 27.7 7.3 21.1 Operating profit 11.9 13.4 15.1 (5.8 ) 1.2 Earnings before provision for income taxes 12.3 14.1 15.8 (7.3 ) 1.9 Net earnings 8.0 9.0 9.9 (5.3 ) 3.7 Net Sales Net sales in fiscal 2007 (fifty two weeks) increased $431.5 million to $7.049 billion, representing an increase of 6.5% over the $6.617 billion of net sales in fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks), which increased $807.9 million or 15 13.9% over net sales of $5.810 billion in fiscal 2005 (fifty two weeks). For fiscal 2007, approximately 82% of the increase in net sales was attributable to an increase in the Companys new store sales, 26% of the increase was attributable to the acquisition of buybuy BABY, 15% of the increase was attributable to the increase in comparable store sales, all partially offset by 23% as a result of the additional week of sales in fiscal 2006. For fiscal 2006, approximately 52% of the increase in net sales was attributable to an increase in the Companys new store sales, and the balance of the increase was primarily attributable to the increase in comparable store sales and the benefit of an additional week in fiscal 2006. The additional week of sales in fiscal 2006 represented approximately 1.6% of net sales. For fiscal 2007, comparable store sales for 792 stores represented $6.457 billion of net sales; for fiscal 2006, comparable store sales for 683 stores represented $6.069 billion of net sales; and for fiscal 2005, comparable store sales for 605 stores represented $5.282 billion of net sales. For fiscal 2007, the increase in comparable store sales was approximately 1.0%. The increase in comparable store sales reflects the continued consumer acceptance of the Companys merchandise offerings and advertising programs, but was negatively affected by the economic slowdown, in general, and by issues specific to the housing and mortgage industries in particular. In those areas of the Country that have been reported as being the most significantly affected by these issues, notably Arizona, California, Florida and Nevada, sales were noticeably weaker than in less affected areas. For fiscal 2006, the increase in comparable store sales of 4.9% was due to a number of factors, including but not limited to, the continued consumer acceptance of the Companys merchandise offerings and a strong focus on customer service with an emphasis on responding to customer feedback. Comparable store sales percentages are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks for each annual period. buybuy BABY is excluded from the comparable store sales percentage for fiscal 2007, but will be included in the Companys comparable store sales calculation starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Sales of domestics merchandise accounted for approximately 44%, 46% and 47% of net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of which the Company estimates that bed linens accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The remaining net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 of 56%, 54% and 53%, respectively, represented sales of home furnishings and other items. No other individual product category accounted for 10% or more of net sales during fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. Gross Profit Gross profit in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $2.925 billion or 41.5% of net sales, $2.835 billion or 42.8% of net sales and $2.486 billion or 42.8% of net sales, respectively. The decrease in gross profit between fiscal 2007 and 2006 as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in coupon redemptions associated with a heightened promotional environment, an increase in inventory acquisition costs and the shift in the mix of merchandise sold, as the Company continues to experience a higher percentage of sales of home furnishings. Selling, General and Administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were $2.087 billion or 29.6% of net sales in fiscal 2007 compared to $1.946 billion or 29.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to a relative increase in advertising expense as a result of increased distributions of advertising pieces in response to the heightened promotional environment and a relative increase in occupancy costs and other expenses, partially offset by a relative decrease in payroll and payroll related items (including a non recurring pre tax charge of $30 million in fiscal 2006 related to the Companys remediation program intended to protect its employees from certain adverse tax consequences arising pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A). SG&A was $1.946 billion or 29.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006 compared to $1.607 billion or 27.7% of net sales in fiscal 2005. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the non recurring charge referred to above, the expensing of stock options for twelve months in fiscal 2006 versus six months in fiscal 2005, additional stock based compensation charges primarily related to the revised measurement dates, increased legal and accounting charges associated with the stock option review (see Review of Equity Grants and Procedures and 16 Related Matters in Fiscal 2006) and an increase in advertising, which included higher paper costs and postal rates. Lastly, there were one time benefits experienced in fiscal 2005, such as settlement of credit card litigation and certain insurance recoveries, which the Company did not have in fiscal 2006. Operating Profit Operating profit for fiscal 2007 was $838.0 million or 11.9% of net sales compared to $889.4 million or 13.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006. The decrease in operating profit as a percentage of net sales was a result of the deleverage in the gross margin and SG&A, as discussed above. Operating profit was $889.4 million or 13.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006 compared to $879.2 million or 15.1% of net sales in fiscal 2005. The decrease in operating profit as a percentage of net sales was the result of the deleverage in SG&A, as discussed above. Interest Income Interest income in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $27.2 million, $43.5 million and $35.9 million, respectively. Interest income decreased in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of lower cash balances principally due to share repurchase activity in fiscal 2007. Interest income increased in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 primarily due to increases in the Companys average investment interest rates as a result of the upward trend in short term interest rates. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 35.0% for fiscal 2007, 36.3% for fiscal 2006 and 37.4% for fiscal 2005. The tax rate for fiscal 2007 included an approximate $21.6 million benefit primarily due to the effective settlement of certain discrete tax items from ongoing examinations, the recognition of favorable discrete state tax items and from changing the blended state tax rate of deferred income taxes. The decrease from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006 is primarily due to a reduction in the weighted average effective tax rate resulting from a change in the mix of the business within the taxable jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company expects that Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) may, over time, create more volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year because the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit. EXPANSION PROGRAM The Company is engaged in an ongoing expansion program involving the opening of new stores in both new and existing markets, the expansion or relocation of existing stores and the continuous review of strategic acquisitions. In the sixteen year period from the beginning of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2007, the chain has grown from 34 to 971 stores. Total square footage grew from 917,000 square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to 30.2 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2007. The Company opened its first international BBB store in Ontario, Canada in December 2007 and is actively pursuing its expansion opportunities in Canada. In addition, the Company continues to explore other international opportunities. The Company intends to continue its expansion program and currently expects to open approximately 50 to 55 new BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada in fiscal 2008. The Company also expects to open approximately 12 new CTS stores and several buybuy BABY stores as well as continue to open new Harmon stores (see details under Liquidity and Capital Resources below). The continued growth of the Company is dependent, in large part, upon the Companys ability to execute its expansion program successfully. 17 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006 The Company has been able to finance its operations, including its expansion program, through internally generated funds. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2007 was $614.5 million, compared with $613.6 million in fiscal 2006. Year over year, the Company experienced an increase in cash provided by net earnings, as adjusted for non cash expenses (primarily deferred taxes and depreciation), which was offset by a decrease in the net components of working capital (primarily decreases in accounts payable and income taxes offset by an increase in merchandise inventories). Inventory per square foot was $53.58 and $54.18 as of March 1, 2008 and March 3, 2007, respectively. The Company continues to focus on optimizing inventory productivity while maintaining appropriate in store merchandise levels to support sales growth. Net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2007 was $101.7 million, compared with net cash used in investing activities of $397.7 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities was attributable to an increase in the redemptions of investment securities, net of purchases, that was partially offset by the payment of $85.9 million for the acquisition of buybuy BABY and an increase in capital expenditures to $358.2 million in fiscal 2007 from $317.5 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2007 was $705.5 million, compared with $250.3 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to common stock repurchased of $734.2 million in fiscal 2007 compared to $301.0 million in fiscal 2006 under the Companys stock repurchase program. Fiscal 2006 compared to Fiscal 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2006 was $613.6 million, compared with $660.4 million in fiscal 2005. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was principally driven by working capital changes due to the increase in merchandise inventories (primarily as a result of new store space) and an increase in other current assets (due to the timing of prepayments), partially offset by an increase in net earnings and an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities (primarily due to the timing of payments). Inventory per square foot was $54.18 and $51.04 as of March 3, 2007 and February 25, 2006, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2006 was $397.7 million, compared with $67.6 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was attributable to a decrease in redemptions of investment securities and an increase in capital expenditures partially offset by a decrease in purchases of investment securities. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2006 was $250.3 million, compared with $567.3 million in fiscal 2005. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to common stock repurchased of $301.0 million in fiscal 2006 compared to $598.2 million in fiscal 2005 under the Companys stock repurchase program. Auction Rate Securities As of March 1, 2008, the Company had approximately $326.7 million par value of auction rate securities, less a temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $7.2 million to reflect the current lack of liquidity of these investments. The Company recorded this temporary valuation adjustment in other comprehensive income, net of the related tax benefit of $2.7 million, which did not affect fiscal 2007 earnings, and reclassified these investments to long term investment securities to reflect the lack of liquidity of these investments. Due to current market conditions, these investments have experienced failed auctions beginning in mid February 2008. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities, but do not affect the underlying collateral of the 18 securities. All of these investments carry triple A credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these securities. The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. The Company continues to monitor efforts by the financial markets to find alternative means for restoring the liquidity of these investments, including the recent announcements by certain asset managers to redeem a portion of their outstanding auction rate securities. These investments are classified as non current assets until the Company has better visibility as to when their liquidity will be restored. The classification and valuation of these securities will be reviewed quarterly. Other Fiscal 2007 Information At March 1, 2008, the Company maintained two uncommitted lines of credit of $100 million each, with expiration dates of September 3, 2008 and February 27, 2009, respectively. These uncommitted lines of credit are currently and are expected to be used for letters of credit in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under these uncommitted lines of credit, the Company can obtain unsecured standby letters of credit. During fiscal 2007, the Company did not have any direct borrowings under the uncommitted lines of credit. As of March 1, 2008, there was approximately $8.1 million of outstanding letters of credit and approximately $49.8 million of outstanding unsecured standby letters of credit, primarily for certain insurance programs. Although no assurances can be provided, the Company intends to renew both uncommitted lines of credit before the respective expiration dates. The Company believes that during fiscal 2008, internally generated funds will be sufficient to fund its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. The Companys Board of Directors has authorized repurchases of shares of its common stock for $1 billion in September 2007, for $1 billion in December 2006, for $200 million in January 2006, for $400 million in October 2005 and for $350 million in December 2004. The Company was authorized to make repurchases from time to time in the open market or through other parameters approved by the Board of Directors pursuant to existing rules and regulations. The Company has approximately $967 million remaining of authorized share repurchases as of March 1, 2008. The execution of the Companys current share repurchase program will consider current economic and market conditions, including but not limited to, the liquidity of its auction rate security investments. The Company has contractual obligations consisting mainly of operating leases for stores, offices, warehouse facilities and equipment, purchase obligations and other long term liabilities which the Company is obligated to pay as of March 1, 2008 as follows: Less than 1 After 5 (in thousands) Total year 1 3 years 4 5 years years Operating Lease Obligations (1) $ 3,195,366 $ 404,197 $ 776,185 $ 642,058 $ 1,372,926 Purchase Obligations (2) 433,630 433,630 Other long term liabilities (3) 268,153 Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,897,149 $ 837,827 $ 776,185 $ 642,058 $ 1,372,926 (1) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Companys leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance and other costs. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and or amounts of such payments are not known. As of March 1, 2008, the Company has leased sites for 56 new stores planned for opening in fiscal 2008 or 2009, for which aggregate minimum rental payments over the term of the leases are approximately $261.7 million and are included in the table above. (2) Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for merchandise and capital expenditures. (3) The Companys deferred rent and other liabilities as well as income taxes payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 1, 2008 are primarily comprised of deferred rent, income taxes, workers compensation and general liability reserves and other various accruals. As the timing and or amounts of any cash payment is uncertain, the related amounts have been reflected only in the Total column in the table above. 19 SEASONALITY The Company exhibits less seasonality than many other retail businesses, although sales levels are generally higher in August, November and December, and generally lower in February and April. INFLATION The Company does not believe that its operating results have been materially affected by inflation during the past year. There can be no assurance, however, that the Companys operating results will not be affected by inflation in the future. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, a company may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax positions only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities. FIN 48 also provided guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and requires increased disclosures. On March 4, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48 and recognized a $13.1 million increase to Retained earnings to reflect the change to its liability for unrecognized tax benefits as required. The Company also recorded additional unrecognized tax benefits, and corresponding higher deferred tax assets, of $35.6 million as a result of the adoption. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements and accordingly, does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The FASB has issued a one year deferral of SFAS No. 157s fair value measurement requirements for non financial assets and liabilities that are not required or permitted to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Although SFAS No. 157 will require additional disclosures about fair value measurements, the Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value (the fair value option). If the fair value option is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, e.g. debt issue costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and may generally be made on an instrument by instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date fair value. SFAS No. 141R determines what information to disclose to enable users 20 of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is not permitted. REVIEW OF EQUITY GRANTS AND PROCEDURES AND RELATED MATTERS IN FISCAL 2006 As a result of revised measurement dates for certain stock option grants, and the correction of various other errors, the Company determined that it had certain unrecorded non cash equity based compensation charges of $61.8 million, including related tax items related to fiscal years prior to 2006. In accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, the Company decreased beginning Retained earnings for fiscal 2006 by $61.8 million within the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys Board of Directors also approved a remediation program intended to protect over 1,600 employees from certain potential adverse tax consequences. These adverse tax consequences arise pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A as a result of historical deficiencies associated with certain of the Companys stock option grants that were disclosed through the Companys stock option review. As a result of this program, the Company made cash payments totaling approximately $30.0 million to over 1,600 employees in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, which resulted in a non recurring, pre tax stock based compensation charge. The cash outlay primarily represented payments to employees in connection with increasing the exercise prices on certain stock option grants so as to protect them from certain potential adverse tax consequences. No executive officer received such payments. The Company believes it is likely the Company will recoup a substantial portion of the anticipated cash outlay over the next several years through higher proceeds from future stock option exercises, although this recovery would not flow through the income statement. The Company also filed a Form 8 K dated December 28, 2006 which provides further details regarding the remediation program. The Company continues to cooperate with the inquiry of the SEC regarding the Companys stock option grant practices. The United States Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey concluded its inquiry with respect to matters arising out of and related to the Companys historical stock option grants and procedures and related matters and has indicated it will take no further action related to this matter. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company to establish accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes to be relevant under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In particular, judgment is used in areas such as inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, goodwill and other indefinitely lived intangible assets, accruals for self insurance, litigation, store opening, expansion, relocation and closing costs, stock based compensation and income taxes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Inventory Valuation: Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs for BBB and Harmon are calculated using the weighted average retail inventory method and inventory costs for CTS and buybuy BABY are calculated using the first in first out cost method. Under the retail inventory method, the valuation of inventories at cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated 21 by applying a cost to retail ratio to the retail values of inventories. The cost associated with determining the cost to retail ratio includes: merchandise purchases, net of returns to vendors, discounts and volume and incentive rebates; inbound freight expenses; duty, insurance and commissions. At any one time, inventories include items that have been written down to the Companys best estimate of their realizable value. Judgment is required in estimating realizable value and factors considered are the age of merchandise and anticipated demand. Actual realizable value could differ materially from this estimate based upon future customer demand or economic conditions. The Company estimates its reserve for shrinkage throughout the year, based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Actual shrinkage is recorded at year end based upon the results of the Companys physical inventory count. Historically, the Companys shrinkage has not been volatile. The Company accrues for merchandise in transit once it takes legal ownership and title to the merchandise; as such, an estimate for merchandise in transit is included in the Companys merchandise inventories. Impairment of Long Lived Assets: The Company reviews long lived assets for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may exceed their current fair values. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale would be presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet. Goodwill and Other Indefinitely Lived Intangible Assets: The Company reviews goodwill and other intangibles that have indefinite lives for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets might exceed their current fair values. Impairment testing is based upon the best information available including estimates of fair value which incorporate assumptions marketplace participants would use in making their estimates of fair value. The Company has not historically recorded an impairment to its goodwill and other indefinitely lived intangible assets. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that an asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these assets in the period in which the impairment occurs. Self Insurance: The Company utilizes a combination of insurance and self insurance for a number of risks including workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability and employee related health care benefits (a portion of which is paid by its employees). Liabilities associated with the risks that the Company retains are estimated by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Although the Companys claims experience has not displayed substantial volatility in the past, actual experience could materially vary from its historical experience in the future. Factors that affect these estimates include but are not limited to: inflation, the number and severity of claims and regulatory changes. In the future, if the Company concludes an adjustment to self insurance accruals is required, the liability will be adjusted accordingly. Litigation: The Company records an estimated liability related to various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business which is based on available information and advice from outside counsel, where appropriate. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending litigation and revises its estimates, as appropriate. The ultimate resolution of these ongoing matters as a result of future developments could have a material impact on the Companys earnings. The Company cannot predict the nature and validity of claims which could be asserted in the future, and future claims could have a material impact on its earnings. Store Opening, Expansion, Relocation and Closing Costs: Store opening, expansion, relocation and closing costs, including markdowns, asset residual values and projected occupancy costs, are charged to earnings as incurred. 22 Stock Based Compensation: Under SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), the Company uses a Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of its stock options. The Black Scholes model includes various assumptions, including the expected life of stock options, the expected risk free interest rate and the expected volatility. These assumptions reflect the Companys best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside the control of the Company. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, total stock based compensation cost, as determined in accordance with SFAS No. 123R, could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if the Company uses different assumptions for future grants, stock based compensation cost could be materially impacted in future periods. The Company determines its assumptions for the Black Scholes option pricing model in accordance with SFAS No. 123R and or SAB No. 107, Share Based Payment. The expected life of stock options is estimated based on historical experience. The expected risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury constant maturity interest rate whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. The expected volatility is based solely on the implied volatility of the Companys call options. The Companys call options used to determine implied volatility are actively traded on multiple exchanges, had remaining maturities in excess of twelve months, had market prices close to the exercise prices of the employee stock options and were measured on the stock option grant date. The Company believes the resulting implied volatility used to determine the fair value of its stock options represents what marketplace participants would likely use in determining an exchange price for an option. The Company is required to record stock based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. The Companys forfeiture rate assumption used in determining its stock based compensation expense is estimated based on historical data. The actual forfeiture rate could differ from these estimates. Income Taxes: The Company accounts for its income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company intends to reinvest the unremitted earnings of its Canadian subsidiary. Accordingly, no provision has been made for U.S. or additional non U.S. taxes with respect to these earnings. In the event of repatriation to the U.S., such earnings would be subject to U.S. income taxes in most cases. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48. Under FIN 48, the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities. The Company expects that FIN 48 may, over time, create more volatility in the effective tax rate from quarter to quarter because the Company is required each quarter to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit. Judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various tax authorities. Although the Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates. 23 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10 K and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Companys actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Companys control. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market and fuel costs; changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Companys expansion program; the impact of failed auctions for auction rate securities held by the Company; and matters arising out of or related to the Companys stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committees findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any tax implications relating to the Companys stock option grants, the outcome of a shareholder derivative action filed against certain of the Companys officers and directors and related matters, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters. ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As of March 1, 2008, the Companys investments include cash and cash equivalents of $224.1 million and long term investment securities of $326.0 million at weighted average interest rates of 2.2% and 4.4%, respectively. The Company had no short term investment securities as of March 1, 2008. Included in its long term investment securities, the Company has approximately $326.7 million par value of auction rate securities, less a temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $7.2 million to reflect the current lack of liquidity of these investments. The Company recorded this temporary valuation adjustment in other comprehensive income, net of the related tax benefit of $2.7 million, which did not affect fiscal 2007 earnings, and reclassified these investments to long term investment securities to reflect the current lack of liquidity of these investments. Due to current market conditions, these investments have experienced failed auctions beginning in mid February 2008. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities, but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. All of these investments carry triple A credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these securities. The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. The Company continues to monitor efforts by the financial markets to find alternative means for restoring the liquidity of these investments, including the recent announcements by certain asset managers to redeem a portion of their outstanding auction rate securities. However, if the interest rate environment changes, the Company may incur further unrealized losses. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further, the Company may conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in auction rate securities, which could negatively affect the Companys financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. 24 
 
