ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names Bed Bath & Beyond (BBB), Christmas Tree Shops (CTS), Harmon and Harmon Face Values (Harmon) and buybuy BABY. The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise. The Companys objective is to be a customers first choice for products and services in the categories offered, in the markets in which the Company operates. The Companys strategy is to achieve this objective through excellent customer service, an extensive breadth and depth of assortment, everyday low prices, introduction of new merchandising offerings and development of its infrastructure. Operating in the highly competitive retail industry, the Company, along with other retail companies, is influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions including the housing market, fuel costs, and the overall macroeconomic environment, unusual weather patterns, consumer preferences and spending habits, competition from existing and potential competitors, and the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Companys expansion program. The difficult conditions affecting the overall macroeconomic environment continued to impact the retail sector in general and the Company. The Company believes factors such as the increase in the unemployment rate and issues specific to the housing industry, including a decline in home values in conjunction with a downward trend in home sales, have negatively impacted consumer confidence and the level of discretionary spending by consumers, resulting in an adverse impact on the Companys net sales, net earnings and operating cash flows. The Company cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which these economic conditions will change. Recently, a number of businesses in the retail industry, including a significant competitor of the Company, have announced their liquidations. The Companys results have been impacted and may continue to be impacted by these liquidations, including those within its sector of retailing. The Company believes this continued industry consolidation will provide an opportunity to gain market share and to improve its competitive position over the long term; however, the Company cannot, with any level of certainty, estimate the impact these liquidations will have on its future results of operations. In light of the risks posed by the current macroeconomic environment, the Company continues to work to systematically review all expenditures with the goal of prudently managing its business. At the same time, the Company remains committed to making the required investments in its infrastructure to help position the Company for continued success. The Company continues to scrutinize and prioritize its capital needs while continuing to make investments, principally for new stores, existing store improvements, and other projects whose impact is considered as important to its future. The following represents an overview of the Companys financial performance for the periods indicated: Net sales in fiscal 2008 (fifty two weeks) increased approximately 2.3% to $7.208 billion; net sales in fiscal 2007 (fifty two weeks) increased approximately 6.5% to $7.049 billion over net sales of $6.617 billion in fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks). Comparable store sales for fiscal 2008 decreased by approximately 2.4% as compared with an increase of approximately 1.0% and 4.9% in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Comparable store sales percentages are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks for each annual period. 16 Table of Contents A store is considered a comparable store when it has been open for twelve full months following its grand opening period (typically four to six weeks). Stores relocated or expanded are excluded from comparable store sales if the change in square footage would cause meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. In the case of a store to be closed, such stores sales are not considered comparable once the store closing process has commenced. Since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, buybuy BABY has been included in the Companys comparable store sales calculation. Gross profit for fiscal 2008 was $2.873 billion or 39.9% of net sales compared with $2.925 billion or 41.5% of net sales for fiscal 2007 and $2.835 billion or 42.8% of net sales for fiscal 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) for fiscal 2008 were $2.199 billion or 30.5% of net sales compared with $2.087 billion or 29.6% of net sales for fiscal 2007 and $1.946 billion or 29.4% of net sales for fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate was 37.8%, 35.0% and 36.3% for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The changes in the effective tax rate between fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 are due to the recognition of certain discrete tax items in each respective fiscal year. Net earnings for the fiscal year (fifty two weeks) ended February 28, 2009 were $1.64 per diluted share ($425.1 million), compared to fiscal 2007 (fifty two weeks) net earnings of $2.10 per diluted share ($562.8 million) and fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks) net earnings of $2.09 per diluted share ($594.2 million). Net earnings per diluted share include the impact of the Companys repurchases of its common stock. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Companys capital expenditures were $215.9 million, $358.2 million and $317.5 million. Included in fiscal 2007s capital expenditures were costs associated with a new distribution center and a new E service fulfillment center to support the Companys growth. Since May 2008, the Company, through a joint venture, operates two stores in Mexico under the name Home & More. The cost of investment in the joint venture totaled approximately $4.8 million, including fees. The Company plans to continue to expand its operations and invest in its infrastructure to reach its long term objectives. In fiscal 2009, the Company expects to open approximately 50 to 54 new stores, including approximately 35 BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada, approximately six to eight CTS stores, approximately eight to ten buybuy BABY stores and one Harmon store. During fiscal 2008, the Company opened a total of 67 new stores, including 49 BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada, 11 CTS stores, one Harmon store and six buybuy BABY stores and closed one Harmon store. The Company currently has no outstanding bank borrowings, and for fiscal 2009, expects its operations to be entirely funded from internally generated sources. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth for the periods indicated (i) selected statement of earnings data of the Company expressed as a percentage of net sales and (ii) the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year in selected statement of earnings data: 17 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Percentage Change of Net Sales from Prior Year February 28, March 1, March 3, February 28, March 1, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 2.3 % 6.5 % Cost of sales 60.1 58.5 57.2 5.1 9.0 Gross profit 39.9 41.5 42.8 (1.8 ) 3.2 Selling, general and administrative expenses 30.5 29.6 29.4 5.4 7.3 Operating profit 9.3 11.9 13.4 (19.6 ) (5.8 ) Earnings before provision for income taxes 9.5 12.3 14.1 (21.0 ) (7.3 ) Net earnings 5.9 8.0 9.0 (24.5 ) (5.3 ) Net Sales Net sales in fiscal 2008 (fifty two weeks) increased $159.4 million to $7.208 billion, representing an increase of 2.3% over $7.049 billion of net sales in fiscal 2007 (fifty two weeks), which increased $431.5 million or 6.5% over the $6.617 billion of net sales in fiscal 2006 (fifty three weeks). For fiscal 2008, the increase in net sales was generated by the Companys new store sales increase of 4.6% partially offset by the decrease in comparable store sales. For fiscal 2007, approximately 82% of the increase in net sales was attributable to an increase in the Companys new store sales, 26% of the increase was attributable to the acquisition of buybuy BABY, 15% of the increase was attributable to the increase in comparable store sales, all partially offset by 23% as a result of an additional week of sales in fiscal 2006. For fiscal 2008, comparable store sales for 874 stores represented $6.746 billion of net sales; for fiscal 2007, comparable store sales for 792 stores represented $6.457 billion of net sales; and for fiscal 2006, comparable store sales for 683 stores represented $6.069 billion of net sales. For fiscal 2008, the decrease in comparable store sales was approximately 2.4%. Net sales and comp sales continued to be negatively affected by the economic slowdown including issues specific to the housing industry and the liquidation sales of a number of retailers, including a significant competitor. For fiscal 2007, the increase in comparable store sales was approximately 1.0%. This increase reflected the continued consumer acceptance of the Companys merchandise offerings and advertising programs, but was negatively affected by the economic slowdown, in general, and by issues specific to the housing and mortgage industries in particular. In those areas of the Country that were reported to be the most significantly affected by these issues, notably Arizona, California, Florida and Nevada, sales were noticeably weaker than in less affected areas. Sales of domestics merchandise accounted for approximately 43%, 44% and 46% of net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, of which the Company estimates that bed linens accounted for approximately 13%, 14% and 15% of net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The remaining net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 of 57%, 56% and 54%, respectively, represented sales of home furnishings and other items. No other individual product category accounted for 10% or more of net sales during fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. Gross Profit Gross profit in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $2.873 billion or 39.9% of net sales, $2.925 billion or 41.5% of net sales and $2.835 billion or 42.8% of net sales, respectively. 18 Table of Contents The decrease in gross profit between fiscal 2008 and 2007 as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in inventory acquisition costs, an increase in coupon redemptions and the shift in the mix of merchandise sold as the Company continues to experience a higher percentage of sales of home furnishings. The decrease in gross profit between fiscal 2007 and 2006 as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in coupon redemptions associated with a heightened promotional environment, an increase in inventory acquisition costs and the shift in the mix of merchandise sold, as the Company continued to experience a higher percentage of sales of home furnishings. Selling, General and Administrative expenses SG&A was $2.199 billion or 30.5% of net sales in fiscal 2008, $2.087 billion or 29.6% of net sales in fiscal 2007 and $1.946 billion or 29.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006. The increase in SG&A between fiscal 2008 and 2007 as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to the 2.4% decline in comparable store sales, resulting in relative increases in occupancy costs (including rent, depreciation and real estate taxes), as well as relative increases in payroll related items (including salaries and benefits). Also contributing to the increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales were relative increases in advertising expenses, including increases in postage, paper and other production costs. The increase in SG&A between fiscal 2007 and 2006 as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a relative increase in advertising expense as a result of increased distributions of advertising pieces in response to the heightened promotional environment and a relative increase in occupancy costs and other expenses, partially offset by a relative decrease in payroll and payroll related items (including a non recurring pre tax charge of $30 million in fiscal 2006 related to the Companys remediation program intended to protect its employees from certain adverse tax consequences arising pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A). Operating Profit Operating profit for fiscal 2008 was $673.9 million or 9.3% of net sales, $838.0 million or 11.9% of net sales in fiscal 2007 and $889.4 million or 13.4% of net sales in fiscal 2006. The year over year decreases in operating profit as a percentage of net sales were a result of changes in gross profit and SG&A, as discussed above. Interest Income Interest income in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $9.4 million, $27.2 million and $43.5 million, respectively. Interest income decreased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily as a result of lower interest rates. Interest income decreased in fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006 primarily as a result of lower cash balances principally due to share repurchase activity in fiscal 2007. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 37.8% for fiscal 2008, 35.0% for fiscal 2007 and 36.3% for fiscal 2006. For fiscal 2008, the tax rate included an approximate $0.8 million benefit primarily due to the recognition of certain discrete tax items and the changing of the blended state tax rate of deferred income taxes. For fiscal 2007, the tax rate included an approximate $21.6 million benefit primarily due to the effective settlement of certain discrete tax items from ongoing examinations, the recognition of favorable discrete state tax items and from changing the blended state tax rate of deferred income taxes. The Company expects that Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) will continue to create volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year because the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit. EXPANSION PROGRAM The Company is engaged in an ongoing expansion program involving the opening of new stores in both new and existing markets, the expansion or relocation of existing stores and the continuous review of strategic acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents In the 17 year period from the beginning of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2008, the chain has grown from 34 to 1,037 stores. Total square footage grew from 0.9 million square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to 32.1 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2008, the Company opened a total of 67 new stores, including 49 BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada, 11 CTS stores, one Harmon store and six buybuy BABY stores, and closed one Harmon store, all of which resulted in the aggregate addition of approximately 1.9 million square feet of store space. The Company opened its first international BBB store in Ontario, Canada in December 2007 and opened three additional stores in Canada during fiscal 2008. Since May 2008, the Company, through a joint venture, operates two stores in Mexico under the name Home & More. The Company plans to continue to expand its operations and invest in its infrastructure to reach its long term objectives. In fiscal 2009, the Company expects to open approximately 50 to 54 new stores, including approximately 35 BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada, approximately six to eight CTS stores, approximately eight to ten buybuy BABY stores and one Harmon store. The Company currently has no outstanding bank borrowings, and for fiscal 2009, expects its operations to be entirely funded from internally generated sources. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Fiscal 2008 compared to Fiscal 2007 The Company has been able to finance its operations, including its expansion program, through internally generated funds. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2008 was $584.0 million, compared with $614.5 million in fiscal 2007. Year over year, the Company experienced a decrease in cash provided by net earnings, partially offset by lower cash used for the net components of working capital (primarily income taxes payable and merchandise inventories offset by merchandise credit and gift card liabilities and accrued expenses and other current liabilities). Inventory per square foot was $51.24 as of February 28, 2009, a decrease of approximately 4.4% from $53.58 as of March 1, 2008. The Company continues to focus on optimizing inventory productivity while maintaining appropriate in store merchandise levels to support sales. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2008 was $113.1 million, compared with net cash provided by investing activities of $101.7 million in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2008, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $215.9 million of capital expenditures partially offset by $107.6 million of redemptions of investment securities. In fiscal 2007, net cash provided by investing activities was due to $545.8 million of redemptions of investment securities, net of purchases, partially offset by $358.2 million of capital expenditures and $85.9 million in payment for the acquisition of buybuy BABY. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2008 was $26.8 million, compared with $705.5 million in fiscal 2007. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to a decrease in common stock repurchases in the current year. Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2007 was $614.5 million, compared with $613.6 million in fiscal 2006. Year over year, the Company experienced an increase in cash provided by net earnings, as adjusted for non cash expenses (primarily deferred taxes and depreciation), which was offset by a decrease in the net components of working capital (primarily decreases in accounts payable and income taxes offset by an increase in merchandise inventories). Inventory per square foot was $53.58 and $54.18 as of March 1, 2008 and March 3, 2007, respectively. 20 Table of Contents Net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2007 was $101.7 million, compared with net cash used in investing activities of $397.7 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities was attributable to an increase in the redemptions of investment securities, net of purchases, that was partially offset by the payment of $85.9 million for the acquisition of buybuy BABY and an increase in capital expenditures to $358.2 million in fiscal 2007 from $317.5 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2007 was $705.5 million, compared with $250.3 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to common stock repurchased of $734.2 million in fiscal 2007 compared to $301.0 million in fiscal 2006 under the Companys stock repurchase program. Auction Rate Securities As of February 28, 2009, the Company held approximately $216.6 million of net investments in auction rate securities. Beginning in mid February 2008 due to current market conditions, the auction process for the Companys auction rate securities failed and continues to fail. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. All of these investments carry triple A credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these securities. During fiscal 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with the investment firm that sold the Company a portion of its auction rate securities to redeem at par approximately $43.2 million of these securities. This agreement provides for, among other things, the option to redeem these securities at par during fiscal 2010. The Company recorded a net pre tax other than temporary impairment loss of approximately $1.8 million related to these securities and also recorded $1.8 million of pre tax income to reflect the fair value of the option to redeem these securities at par value. This resulted in no impact on the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2008 and the Company anticipates that any future changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the option with no material impact to the Companys net earnings. The remainder of approximately $176.0 million of these securities at par had a temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $2.6 million to reflect their current lack of liquidity. Since this valuation adjustment is deemed to be temporary, it was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of a related tax benefit of approximately $1.0 million, and did not affect the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2008. The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in its auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. The Company continues to monitor efforts by the financial markets to find alternative means for restoring the liquidity of these investments. These investments are primarily classified as non current assets until the Company has better visibility as to when their liquidity will be restored. The classification and valuation of these securities will continue to be reviewed quarterly. During fiscal 2008, approximately $107.6 million of auction rate securities were redeemed at par. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2008 through April 20, 2009, the Company additionally redeemed approximately $1.1 million at par. Other Fiscal 2008 Information At February 28, 2009, the Company maintained two uncommitted lines of credit of $100 million each, with expiration dates of September 3, 2009 and February 26, 2010, respectively. These uncommitted lines of credit are currently and are expected to be used for letters of credit in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under these uncommitted lines of credit, the Company can obtain unsecured standby letters of credit. During fiscal 2008, the Company did not have any direct borrowings under the uncommitted lines of credit. As of February 28, 2009, there was approximately $7.1 million of outstanding letters of credit and approximately $45.5 million of outstanding unsecured standby letters of credit, primarily for certain insurance programs. Although no assurances can be provided, the Company intends to renew both uncommitted lines of credit before the respective expiration dates. 21 Table of Contents The Company believes that during fiscal 2009, internally generated funds will be sufficient to fund its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. Between December 2004 and September 2007, the Companys Board of Directors authorized, through several share repurchase programs, the repurchase of $2.950 billion of its shares of common stock. The Company was authorized to make repurchases from time to time in the open market or through other parameters approved by the Board of Directors pursuant to existing rules and regulations. The Company has approximately $919 million remaining of authorized share repurchases as of February 28, 2009. The execution of the Companys current share repurchase program will consider current business and market conditions, including but not limited to, the liquidity of its auction rate security investments. The Company has contractual obligations consisting mainly of operating leases for stores, offices, warehouse facilities and equipment, purchase obligations and other long term liabilities which the Company is obligated to pay as of February 28, 2009 as follows: (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Operating Lease Obligations (1) $ 3,162,758 $ 424,635 $ 794,043 $ 642,554 $ 1,301,526 Purchase Obligations (2) 418,697 418,697 Other long term liabilities (3) 315,421 Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,896,876 $ 843,332 $ 794,043 $ 642,554 $ 1,301,526 (1) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Companys leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance and other costs. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and or amounts of such payments are not known. As of February 28, 2009, the Company has leased sites for 41 new stores planned for opening in fiscal 2009 or 2010, for which aggregate minimum rental payments over the term of the leases are approximately $229.9 million and are included in the table above. (2) Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for merchandise and capital expenditures. (3) Amounts recorded as deferred rent and other liabilities and income taxes payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 28, 2009 have been reflected only in the Total column in the table above as the timing and or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. Deferred rent and other liabilities are primarily comprised of deferred rent, workers compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals. SEASONALITY The Company exhibits less seasonality than many other retail businesses, although sales levels are generally higher in August, November and December, and generally lower in February and October. INFLATION The Company does not believe that its operating results have been materially affected by inflation during the past year. There can be no assurance, however, that the Companys operating results will not be affected by inflation in the future. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 addresses the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, a company may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax positions only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. 22 Table of Contents The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities. FIN 48 also provided guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and requires increased disclosures. On March 4, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48 and recognized a $13.1 million increase to retained earnings to reflect the change to its liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits as required. The Company also recorded additional gross unrecognized tax benefits, and corresponding higher deferred tax assets, of $35.6 million as a result of the adoption. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements and accordingly, does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 157 2, a one year deferral of SFAS No. 157s fair value measurement requirements for non financial assets and liabilities that are not required or permitted to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. In October 2008, the FASB also issued FSP No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active. This FSP clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active. FSP No. 157 3 was effective upon issuance. On March 2, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157 and subsequently adopted FSP No. 157 3. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 and FSP No. 157 3 for the Companys financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 as it pertains to non financial assets and liabilities to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value (the fair value option). If the fair value option is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, e.g. debt issue costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and may generally be made on an instrument by instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. On March 2, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159 which did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date fair value. SFAS No. 141R determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is not permitted. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities An Amendment of FASB Statement 133. SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures regarding derivatives and hedging activities, including enhanced disclosures regarding how: (a) an entity uses derivative instruments; (b) derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133; and (c) derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company does not believe SFAS No. 161 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 23 Table of Contents In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the presentation of financial statements that are presented in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. SFAS 162 became effective on November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 162 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets. FSP No. 132(R) 1 amends SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106. FSP No. 132(R) 1 requires more detailed disclosures about the assets of a defined benefit pension or other post retirement plan. FSP No. 132(R) 1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company does not believe FSP No. 132(R) 1 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. REVIEW OF EQUITY GRANTS AND PROCEDURES AND RELATED MATTERS IN FISCAL 2006 In June 2006, the Companys Board of Directors appointed a special committee of independent directors with authority, among other things, to conduct an investigation with respect to the setting of exercise prices for employee stock options and related matters. The review identified various deficiencies in the process of granting and documenting stock options and restricted shares. As a result of the deficiencies, the Company revised the measurement dates for various option grants. As a result of revised measurement dates for certain stock option grants, and the correction of various other errors, the Company determined that it had certain unrecorded non cash equity based compensation charges of $61.8 million, including related tax items related to fiscal years prior to 2006. In accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, the Company decreased beginning retained earnings for fiscal 2006 by $61.8 million within the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The Companys Board of Directors also approved a remediation program intended to protect over 1,600 employees from certain potential adverse tax consequences. These adverse tax consequences arise pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A as a result of historical deficiencies associated with certain of the Companys stock option grants that were disclosed through the Companys stock option review. As a result of this program, the Company made cash payments totaling approximately $30.0 million to over 1,600 employees in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, which resulted in a non recurring, pre tax stock based compensation charge. The cash outlay primarily represented payments to employees in connection with increasing the exercise prices on certain stock option grants so as to protect them from certain potential adverse tax consequences. No executive officer received such payments. The Company believes it is likely the Company will recoup a substantial portion of the anticipated cash outlay over the next several years through higher proceeds from future stock option exercises, although this recovery would not flow through the income statement. Counsel to the special committee notified the SEC of the review. Following such self reporting, the SEC Staff commenced an informal inquiry and the United States Attorneys office for the District of New Jersey commenced an inquiry regarding these matters. During fiscal 2007, the United States Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey concluded its inquiry and indicated it will take no further action related to this matter. During the fiscal first quarter of 2009, the SEC Division of Enforcement informed the Company that it concluded its inquiry and was recommending that no enforcement action be taken with respect to this matter. The Companys past stock option granting procedures have exposed the Company to risk factors that could have a material adverse affect on the Companys business and financial condition, including any tax implications relating to the Companys stock option grants. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company to establish accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes to be relevant under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In particular, judgment is used in areas such as inventory valuation, impairment of long lived assets, goodwill and other indefinitely lived intangible assets, accruals for self insurance, litigation, store opening, expansion, relocation and closing costs, stock based compensation and income taxes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 24 Table of Contents Inventory Valuation: Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs for BBB and Harmon are calculated using the weighted average retail inventory method and inventory costs for CTS are calculated using the first in first out cost method. Beginning on March 2, 2008 inventory costs for buybuy BABY are calculated using the weighted average retail inventory method, whereas previously, they were calculated using the first in first out cost method. The impact of the change in the method of accounting was not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Under the retail inventory method, the valuation of inventories at cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost to retail ratio to the retail values of inventories. The cost associated with determining the cost to retail ratio includes: merchandise purchases, net of returns to vendors, discounts and volume and incentive rebates; inbound freight expenses; duty, insurance and commissions. At any one time, inventories include items that have been written down to the Companys best estimate of their realizable value. Judgment is required in estimating realizable value and factors considered are the age of merchandise and anticipated demand. Actual realizable value could differ materially from this estimate based upon future customer demand or economic conditions. The Company estimates its reserve for shrinkage throughout the year based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Actual shrinkage is recorded at year end based upon the results of the Companys physical inventory counts for locations at which counts were conducted. For locations where physical inventory counts were not conducted in the fiscal year, an estimated shrink reserve is recorded based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Historically, the Companys shrinkage has not been volatile. The Company accrues for merchandise in transit once it takes legal ownership and title to the merchandise; as such, an estimate for merchandise in transit is included in the Companys merchandise inventories. Impairment of Long Lived Assets: The Company reviews long lived assets for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may exceed their current fair values. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale would be presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet. The Company has not historically recorded an impairment to its long lived assets. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that a long lived asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these long lived assets in the period in which the impairment occurs. Goodwill and Other Indefinitely Lived Intangible Assets: The Company reviews goodwill and other intangibles that have indefinite lives for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets might exceed their current fair values. Impairment testing is based upon the best information available including estimates of fair value which incorporate assumptions marketplace participants would use in making their estimates of fair value. The Company has not historically recorded an impairment to its goodwill and other indefinitely lived intangible assets. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that an asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these assets in the period in which the impairment occurs. Self Insurance: The Company utilizes a combination of insurance and self insurance for a number of risks including workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability and employee related health care benefits (a portion of which is paid by its employees). Liabilities associated with the risks that the Company retains are estimated by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Although the Companys claims experience has not displayed substantial volatility in the past, actual experience could materially vary from its historical experience in the future. Factors that affect these estimates include but are not limited to: inflation, the number and severity of claims and regulatory changes. In the future, if the Company concludes an adjustment to self insurance accruals is required, the liability will be adjusted accordingly. 25 Table of Contents Litigation: The Company records an estimated liability related to various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business which is based on available information and advice from outside counsel, where appropriate. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to such claims and legal actions and revises its estimates, as appropriate. The ultimate resolution of these ongoing matters as a result of future developments could have a material impact on the Companys earnings. The Company cannot predict the nature and validity of claims which could be asserted in the future, and future claims could have a material impact on its earnings. Store Opening, Expansion, Relocation and Closing Costs: Store opening, expansion, relocation and closing costs, including markdowns, asset residual values and projected occupancy costs, are charged to earnings as incurred. Stock Based Compensation: Under SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), the Company uses a Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of its stock options. The Black Scholes model includes various assumptions, including the expected life of stock options, the expected risk free interest rate and the expected volatility. These assumptions reflect the Companys best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside the control of the Company. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, total stock based compensation cost, as determined in accordance with SFAS No. 123R, could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if the Company uses different assumptions for future grants, stock based compensation cost could be materially impacted in future periods. The Company determines its assumptions for the Black Scholes option pricing model in accordance with SFAS No. 123R and or SAB No. 107, Share Based Payment. The expected life of stock options is estimated based on historical experience. The expected risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury constant maturity interest rate whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. Commencing with fiscal 2008, the Company changed its methodology for expected volatility to be based on the average of historical and implied volatility. In changing its methodology, the Company considered, among other factors, the current events affecting the market environment at the date of grant and consistency by utilizing implied volatility as a component of its current methodology. The Company believes this approach more closely reflects what marketplace participants would likely use when considering the market environment to determine the expected volatility for the Companys stock options (which vest over 3 7 years) on the date of grant. The historical volatility is determined by observing actual prices of the Companys stock over a period commensurate with the expected life of the awards. The implied volatility represents the implied volatility of the Companys call options, which are actively traded on multiple exchanges, had remaining maturities in excess of twelve months, had market prices close to the exercise prices of the employee stock options and were measured on the stock option grant date. For fiscal 2007 and 2006, the expected volatility was based solely on the implied volatility of the Companys call options, which had the same attributes as described above. The Company is required to record stock based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. The Companys forfeiture rate assumption used in determining its stock based compensation expense is estimated based on historical data. The actual forfeiture rate could differ from these estimates. Income Taxes: The Company accounts for its income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. 26 Table of Contents The Company intends to reinvest the unremitted earnings of its Canadian subsidiary. Accordingly, no provision has been made for U.S. or additional non U.S. taxes with respect to these earnings. In the event of repatriation to the U.S., such earnings would be subject to U.S. income taxes in most cases. During the fiscal first quarter of 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48. Under FIN 48, the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities. The Company expects that FIN 48 will continue to create volatility in the effective tax rate from quarter to quarter because the Company is required each quarter to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit. Judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various tax authorities. Although the Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10 K and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Companys actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Companys control. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market, fuel costs, and a declining overall macroeconomic environment; changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Companys expansion program; the impact of failed auctions for auction rate securities held by the Company; and matters arising out of or related to the Companys stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including any tax implications relating to the Companys stock option grants. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward looking statements. The SEC Division of Enforcement has concluded its inquiry with respect to matters arising out of and related to the Companys historical stock option grants and procedures and related matters and has advised the Company that the Division is recommending no enforcement action be taken related to this matter. ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK As of February 28, 2009, the Companys investments include cash and cash equivalents of $668.2 million, short term investment securities of $2.0 million and long term investment securities of $221.1 million at weighted average interest rates of 0.2%, 0.9% and 0.9%, respectively. As of February 28, 2009, the Company held approximately $216.6 million of net investments in auction rate securities. In mid February 2008, these investments began experiencing failed auctions, and due to current market conditions, these failed auctions have continued. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. All of these investments carry triple A credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these securities. 27 Table of Contents During fiscal 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with the investment firm that sold the Company a portion of its auction rate securities to redeem at par approximately $43.2 million of these securities. This agreement provides for, among other things, the option to redeem these securities at par during fiscal 2010. The Company recorded a net pre tax other than temporary impairment loss of approximately $1.8 million related to these securities and also recorded $1.8 million of pre tax income to reflect the fair value of the option to redeem these securities at par value. This resulted in no impact on the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2008 and the Company anticipates that any future changes in the fair value of the related auction rate securities will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the option with no material impact to the Companys net earnings. The remainder of approximately $176.0 million of these securities at par had a temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $2.6 million to reflect their current lack of liquidity. Since this valuation adjustment is deemed to be temporary, it was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of a related tax benefit of approximately $1.0 million, and did not affect the Companys net earnings for fiscal 2008. The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in its auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital expenditures. The Company continues to monitor efforts by the financial markets to find alternative means for restoring the liquidity of these investments. However, if the interest rate environment changes, the Company may incur further temporary impairment losses. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further, the Company may conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in auction rate securities, which could negatively affect the Companys financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents 
 
