Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are forward looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home and golf products groups, 5 expenses and disruptions related to shifts in manufacturing to different locations and sources, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Registrants Securities and Exchange Commission filings. (b) Financial information about industry segments. See Note 15 "Information on Business Segments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which Note is incorporated herein by reference. (c) Narrative description of business. The following is a description of the business of the subsidiaries of Registrant in the industry segments of Home Products, Spirits and Wine, Golf Products and Office Products. For financial information about the above industry segments, see Note 15 "Information on Business Segments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which Note is incorporated herein by reference. Home Products MasterBrand Industries, Inc. ("MasterBrand") is a holding company for subsidiaries in the home products business. Subsidiaries include Moen Incorporated ("Moen"), MasterBrand Cabinets, Inc. ("MasterBrand Cabinets"), Master Lock Company ("Master Lock") and Waterloo Industries, Inc. ("Waterloo"). The home products business is highly competitive. MasterBrands operating companies compete on the basis of product quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor and retailer needs and end user consumer preferences. Factors that affect MasterBrands results of operations include the levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, principally in the U.S. (including repair and remodeling and new construction). Moen manufactures and packages faucets, sinks, bath furnishings and plumbing accessories and parts and a wide variety of plumbing supply and repair products in the U.S. and East Asia. Moen branded faucets are sold under a variety of trade names, including Villeta, extensa, Boutique, Traditional, Touch Control, One Touch, Monticello, PureTouch, Concentrix, Chateau and Legend, and other products are sold under the Moen, Chicago Specialty, Dearborn Brass, Wrightway, Hoov R Line and CSI Donner brand names. Composite kitchen sinks are sold under the MoenStone brand name. Sales are made through Moens own sales force and independent manufacturers representatives primarily to wholesalers, mass merchandisers and home centers and also to industrial distributors, repackagers and original equipment manufacturers. Some plumbing parts and repair products are purchased from other manufacturers and repackaged for resale. Products are sold principally in the U.S. and Canada and also in East Asia, Mexico and Latin America. Moens chief competitors include Mascos Delta/Peerless, Black & Deckers Price Pfister, Kohler and American Standard. MasterBrand Cabinets is engaged in manufacturing ready to assemble, stock and semi custom kitchen cabinets and bathroom vanities. 6 MasterBrand Cabinets sells under the brand names Aristokraft, Decora, Schrock, Diamond, Kemper and NHB. Sales under the Aristokraft brand name are made in the U.S. primarily direct to large home builders and through stocking distributors for resale to kitchen and bath specialty dealers, lumber and building material dealers, remodelers and builders. Decora brands are sold primarily in the U.S. to kitchen and bath specialty dealers. The Schrock, Diamond and Kemper brands are primarily sold in the U.S. to home centers and kitchen and bath specialty dealers. NHB markets its products under the brand names Kitchen Classics, The Georgetown Collection, Parkhill and NHB through home centers and kitchen and bath specialty dealers in the U.S. and Canada. MasterBrand Cabinets competitors include Mascos Merillat, KraftMaid and Mills Pride brands, Armstrong World Industries Triangle Pacific brand, American Woodmark Corporation and The Omega Groups HomeCrest, KitchenCraft and Omega brands. Master Lock manufactures key controlled and combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks, built in locker locks, automotive locks and other specialty security devices. Sales of products designed for consumer use are made to wholesale distributors, home centers and hardware and other retail outlets. Sales of lock systems are made to industrial and institutional users, original equipment manufacturers and retail outlets. Master Lock competes with Abus, Kryptonite, Hampton, American Lock, Winner and various imports in the padlock segment. Waterloo manufactures tool storage products, principally high quality steel toolboxes, tool chests, workbenches and related products. Waterloo sells to Sears for resale under the Craftsman brand owned by Sears and under the Waterloo brand name to specialty industrial and automotive dealers, mass merchandisers, home centers and hardware stores. Waterloo competes with Snap On, Kennedy, Stanley, Stack On, and others in the metal storage segment, and with Contico, Zag, Rubbermaid and others in the plastic hand box category. Raw materials used for the manufacture of products offered by MasterBrands operating companies are primarily red oak and maple lumber, particleboard, rolled steel, brass, zinc, copper, nickel, and various plastic resins. These materials are available from a number of sources. The continued consolidation of the customer base in the home products industry, for example among home centers and large homebuilders, and increased price competition will continue to present MasterBrand and its competitors with pricing challenges. Customer consolidation will also present opportunities for the most efficient manufacturers and skilled marketers. Our home products business may be impacted in 2002 by the continued uncertain U.S. economic outlook and its potential impact on the U.S. housing and remodeling markets. Spirits and Wine Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. is a holding company for subsidiaries in the distilled spirits and wine business. Principal subsidiaries include Jim Beam Brands Co., Jim Beam Brands Greater Europe Limited ("JBBGE") and Jim Beam Brands Australia Pty. Limited. 7 On October 16, 2001, Registrants spirits and wine business announced that it had sold its U.K. based Scotch whisky business for $280 million in cash. The sale of the business consisted of the Invergordon private label and bulk Scotch operations and several regional brands in the U.K. The business that was sold generated sales of approximately $235 million (including excise taxes) and operating company contribution of approximately $38 million in 2000. The Company recorded an after tax gain of $21.8 million related to the sale. On May 31, 2001, Registrants spirits and wine business completed transactions with V&S, maker of Absolut Vodka, creating a joint venture, named Future Brands LLC, to distribute both companies spirits and wine brands in the United States. V&S paid $270 million to gain access to Beams U.S. distribution network and to acquire a 49% interest in the LLC and paid $375 million to purchase a 10% equity interest in JBBW in the form of convertible preferred stock. V&S also received a 3 year option to increase its equity stake in JBBW by up to an additional 9.9%. V&S may require the Registrant to purchase the JBBW preferred stock in whole or in part at any time after May 31, 2004 or upon a change in control of JBBW, Beam, or certain other events. In August 1999, JBBW formed an international sales and distribution joint venture, named Maxxium Worldwide B.V., to distribute and sell premium wines and spirits in key markets outside the United States. At the same time as the formation of the U.S. joint venture announced on May 31, 2001, V&S invested 107 million Euros (approximately $90 million) to acquire a 25% interest in Maxxium. In addition, in August 1998, JBBW purchased the Geyser Peak wine business and adjacent vineyard property. The winery is located in Alexander Valley, Sonoma County, California. Geyser Peak wine brands include Geyser Peak Reserve, Geyser Peak and Canyon Road. In February 1998, JBBW formed a joint venture to distribute the Barwang brand of Australian wines on a global basis, except in Australia and New Zealand. Principal markets for the products of JBBWs subsidiaries are the U.S., the U.K. and Australia. Approximately 91% of JBBW subsidiary sales are to these three markets, with the U.S. and the U.K. representing 76% and 9% of sales, respectively. JBBWs leading brands are owned by its subsidiaries, except that DeKuyper cordials are produced and sold in the U.S. under a perpetual license, Gilbeys gin and Gilbeys vodka are produced and sold in the U.S. under a license expiring September 30, 2007 and the rights to the Kamchatka vodka brand in California are claimed by another entity. Beam, whose operations are located in the U.S., currently produces, or imports, and markets a broad line of distilled spirits, including bourbon and other whiskeys, cordials, gin, vodka and rum. Beam and its predecessors have been distillers of bourbon whiskey since 1795. Beams nine leading brand names are Jim Beam Bourbon Whiskey, DeKuyper cordials, Windsor Canadian Supreme Whisky, Kessler American Blended Whiskey, Wolfschmidt Vodka, Lord Calvert Canadian Whisky, Kamchatka vodka, Gilbeys vodka and Gilbeys gin. As discussed above, in 1998 Beam also added wines to its product offerings. Products of JBBWs subsidiaries are sold through various distributors and, in the 18 8 "control" states (and one county) in the U.S. that have established government control over certain aspects of the purchase and distribution of alcoholic beverages, through government controlled liquor authorities. The distilled spirits business is highly competitive, with many brands sold in the consumer market. Management believes that, based on units and sales value, the JBBW group, with four brands that each sell over one million cases worldwide, is the second or third largest producer and marketer of distilled spirits in the U.S. and is among the major competitors worldwide. JBBWs subsidiaries compete on the basis of product quality, price, service and responsiveness to consumer preferences. The Maxxium joint venture, the merger of Grand Metropolitan and Guinness to create Diageo in late 1997 and the sale of the Seagram brands to Diageo and Pernod Ricard in 2001, and the JBBW V&S joint venture reflect a trend toward consolidation in the highly competitive global spirits and wine business. The creation of Diageo, and the breadth of its portfolio, as well as the continued consolidation of the supplier, distributor and retailer tiers, may present pricing and service challenges for our subsidiaries and their competitors. It may also present opportunities, particularly for the most efficient and innovative competitors. For many years through 1995, consumption of distilled spirits declined in many countries, including our major market, the U.S. However, since 1996, consumption in the U.S. has been steady or increased slightly, indicating that the historic decline may be reversing. From 1996 through 2001, cases of our spirits products sold by distributors to retailers declined, although the rate of decline has slowed since 1998 to a decrease of 1% in 2001. The number of cases sold may have been affected by our spirits and wine businesss historic strength in mid to low priced products that may not be fully benefiting from the factors influencing the recent industry trends. Our spirits and wine business has introduced and developed several premium brands in recent years and is focusing on the introduction of additional premium products to its portfolio to capitalize on the fastest growing segment of the spirits and wine industry. The number of cases sold may also have been affected by price increases our spirits and wine business has implemented in recent years to increase profits as compared to unit sales. The principal raw materials for the production, storage and aging of distilled products are primarily corn, other grains, and new oak barrels, and are readily available from a number of sources except that new oak barrels are available from only two major sources, one of which is owned by a competitor. Beam has entered into a long term supply agreement for new oak barrels. The principal raw materials used in the production of wines are grapes, barrels and packaging materials. Grapes are primarily purchased from independent growers under long term supply contracts and, from time to time, are adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. In fiscal 2001, approximately 5 10% of Geyser Peaks total grape supply came from company owned land. Because whiskeys are aged for various periods, generally from three to eight years, subsidiaries of JBBW maintain, in accordance with industry practice, substantial inventories of bulk whiskey in warehouse facilities. 9 Whiskey production is generally scheduled to meet demand years into the future, and production schedules are adjusted from time to time to bring inventories into balance with estimated future demand. The production, storage, transportation, distribution and sale of the products of JBBWs subsidiaries are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities. Various local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the sale of distilled spirits and wine in whole or in part. As a result of the publicity surrounding litigation against manufacturers of tobacco products and other class action litigation, some commentators have suggested that other industries, including beverage alcohol, may be the targets of litigation. Registrant believes, and counsel has advised generally, that in the event such actions are commenced, Registrant and its subsidiaries would have meritorious defenses to such suits and they would be vigorously contested. In the U.S., U.K. and many other countries, distilled spirits and wine are subject to federal excise taxes and or customs duties as well as state, local and other taxes. Beverage alcohol sales are particularly sensitive to higher excise tax rates. Although no federal excise tax increase is presently pending in the U.S., our largest market, the possibility of future increases cannot be ruled out. The effect of any future excise tax increases in any jurisdiction cannot be determined, but it is possible that any future excise tax increases would have an adverse effect on unit sales and increase existing competitive pressures. At various times in prior years, there has been discussion and legislation introduced to ban U.S. television advertising of spirits. Although no legislation has been enacted, only one broadcast network in the U.S. has recently accepted distilled spirits advertising, and that network imposed substantial conditions to its acceptance. On March 20, 2002, that network announced that it was reversing its decision to accept distilled spirits advertising. (Some local cable stations accept distilled spirits advertising.) JBBWs operating subsidiaries outside the U.S. have conducted broadcast advertising in markets where legal. Golf Products Acushnet Company ("Acushnet"), together with its subsidiaries, is a leading manufacturer and distributor of golf balls, golf clubs, golf shoes and golf gloves. Other products include bags, dress and athletic shoes as well as socks, accessories and apparel outerwear. Acushnets leading brands are Titleist and Pinnacle golf balls; Titleist and Cobra golf clubs; Scotty Cameron by Titleist and Bulls Eye putters; FootJoy golf shoes; and FootJoy and Titleist golf gloves. Acushnet products are sold primarily to on course golf pro shops and selected off course specialty stores, sporting goods stores and mass merchants throughout the United States. Sales are made in the U.K., Canada, Germany, Austria, Denmark, Ireland, France, Sweden, The Netherlands, South Africa, Thailand and Japan through subsidiaries and outside these areas through distributors or agents. Acushnet and its subsidiaries compete on the basis of product quality, price, service and responsiveness to consumer preferences. In golf balls, Acushnets main competitors are Spalding, Bridgestone, Wilson and 10 Dunlop/Slazenger and new entrants such as Callaway and Nike. In golf clubs, Callaway, Taylor Made, Ping, Adams, Orlimar, Cleveland, Wilson, Spalding and Mizuno are the main competitors. In golf shoes, Nike, Adidas, Etonic, Dexter, Reebok, Mizuno and Stylo are the main competitors. In golf gloves, Nike, Etonic, Wilson, Dunlop/Maxfli, Kasco, Slazenger, Taylor Made, Mizuno and Bridgestone are the main competitors. In 2001 and 2000, the golf club market was adversely affected by lower customer demand, leading to volume declines and price discounting. The Cobra brand was adversely affected by the competitions aggressive introduction of new products. Acushnet is introducing several new Cobra club models in 2002. Titleist clubs posted sales and profit growth. Conditions in the club market remain very competitive, with major competitors introducing new products and consumers becoming more price conscious. In 2000, aggressive actions were undertaken, including field sales force consolidation and programs to bring Cobra expenses in line with lower demand and to identify further synergies between Titleist and Cobra. In 2001, the golf ball product lines posted record sales and increased market share through the introduction of new products. The golf ball business experienced a product mix shift as Titleist branded golf balls increased 16% while lower priced Pinnacle golf balls decreased 17%. Competitors with significant brand awareness have introduced golf balls into their product offerings in the past three years and the golf ball industry has experienced price competition, partially as a result of such introductions. Although our golf products businesss share of the domestic golf ball market fell slightly during 2000, our golf ball business recovered that market share by the end of 2001, largely as a result of the introduction of the Pro V1 and the recently introduced NXT. The United States Golf Association ("USGA") establishes standards for golf equipment used in competitive play in the United States. On November 2, 1998, the USGA announced the immediate implementation of a new golf club performance rule that established a rebound velocity standard for driving clubs. The Royal and Ancient Golf Club ("R&A") establishes standards for golf equipment used in competitive play outside the United States and Mexico. On September 21, 2000, the R&A issued a Notice to Manufacturers announcing its decision not to adopt the USGAs rebound velocity standard or any new rule or test protocol for driving clubs. The R&As decision not to adopt the rule implemented by the USGA has resulted in conflicting conformance standards for driving clubs in the United States and the rest of the world. The divergence between the USGA and the R&A on this issue may cause confusion to consumers and could be disruptive to the United States and world markets for driving clubs. In addition, the USGA rule could hamper innovation and make it more difficult to use technological advances to produce USGA conforming products. However, it is not possible to determine whether in the long term the USGA rule or the divergence in rules will have a material effect on the golf club industry and our golf products business. Each of the USGA and the R&A has announced its intention to propose new rules addressing the overall distance standards for golf balls, golf club 11 head size and golf club shaft length. Until more details regarding such potential rule changes become available, we cannot determine whether they would have a material effect on our golf products business and or the golf industry. However, the new rules being considered could incorporate rules that would shorten the overall distance that golf balls are allowed to travel and that could hamper innovation in the design and manufacture of golf balls and golf clubs. The adoption of any such rules could materially impact our golf products business and or the golf industry. There has been considerable recent discussion in the golf trade press regarding the use of a standardized golf ball for professional tournament play and or the establishment of separate equipment standards for tournament play. The adoption of either concept by one of golfs ruling bodies, a professional tour or individual tournaments could materially impact our golf products business and or the golf industry. Acushnets advertising and promotional campaigns rely in part on a large number of touring professionals and club professionals using and endorsing its products. Acushnet has been competing for the endorsement and promotional services of touring professionals. As a result, these costs have risen and may continue to rise. There is currently a substantial market in "knock off" and counterfeit golf clubs which imitate or copy the protected features of original equipment manufacturers golf club products. Acushnet has an active program of enforcing its intellectual property rights against those who make or sell such products. Office Products ACCO World Corporation ("ACCO") is a holding company for subsidiaries engaged in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing a wide variety of traditional and computer related office products, supplies, personal computer accessory products, time management products, presentation aids and label products. Products are manufactured by subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees of ACCO, or manufactured to such subsidiaries specifications by third party suppliers throughout the world, principally in the U.S., Mexico, Canada, Western Europe, Australia, Taiwan and China. ACCO Brands, Inc. ("ACCO Brands"), ACCOs primary U.S. operating company, manufactures or sources and sells binders, fasteners, paper clips, punches, staples, stapling equipment and storage products, computer supplies and accessories, labels and presentation products. ACCO Canada Inc. ("ACCO Canada"), a subsidiary of ACCO, manufactures binders and distributes in Canada a range of office products similar to that distributed by ACCO Brands in the U.S. Principal office products brands include ACCO fastener products, Swingline staples and stapling equipment, Wilson Jones binders and columnar pads, Perma Products corrugated storage products, Kensington computer accessories and supplies, MACO and Wilson Jones labels and Apollo and Boone presentation products. Products are sold throughout the U.S. and Canada by an in house sales force and independent representatives to office and computer products wholesalers, retailers, dealers, mail order companies and mass merchandisers. Sales are concentrated in the U.S., Canada and Australia. 12 Subsidiaries of ACCO Europe PLC ("ACCO Europe"), another subsidiary of ACCO, manufacture or source and distribute a wide range of office supplies and machines, storage and retrieval filing systems and presentation products. ACCO Europes products are sold primarily in the U.K., Ireland, Western Europe and Australia through its subsidiaries sales forces and through distributors. Principal brands sold by ACCO Europes subsidiaries include ACCO fastening products, Kensington and ACCO Data computer accessories, Rexel stapling products, Nyrex and Twinlock filing products, Nobo and Sasco presentation products and, in Australia, Marbig, Twinlock, Kensington and Boone products. Day Timers, Inc. ("Day Timers"), a subsidiary of ACCO, manufactures personal organizers and planners in the U.S. Management believes Day Timers is one of the leading direct marketers of time management aids in North America. Products are sold in the U.S. by Day Timers, and in Canada, Australia and Europe by subsidiaries of Day Timers, through direct mail advertising, catalogs to consumers and businesses, and electronic commerce. In addition, products are sold through ACCO Brands and ACCO Canada to retailers and mass merchandisers. Day Timerss subsidiary in Australia also conducts time management seminars for personnel of corporations. The office products business is increasingly concentrated in a small number of major customers, principally office products superstores, large retailers, wholesalers and contract stationers. The continuing consolidation of both competitors and customers is causing increased pricing pressures and rebates that negatively affect results. Pricing pressures were compounded by the decision of several customers to continue to reduce inventory levels. These conditions persisted throughout 2001 and continue to present challenges for Registrants office products business and its competitors. Customer rebates, in particular, are expected to increase in 2002. U.S. and European economic softness and demand weakness caused by corporate layoffs coupled with ongoing inventory reductions by major customers have prolonged industry wide volume challenges. These factors, in combination with an uncertain U.S. economic outlook, may continue to further impact sales of our office products business in future quarters. In October 2000, Registrant announced that it was exploring strategic options, including the potential sale of its office products business. Registrant decided, in April 2001, not to divest its office products business due to weakness in the overall economy particularly impacting the office products industry. Registrant is currently repositioning and restructuring the business to improve both financial results and the long term value of the business. Under this plan, Registrants office products business is realigning and streamlining its worldwide operations, intensifying its focus on growing profitable core product categories, divesting or discontinuing non strategic and low return product categories and reducing overhead expenses and excess capacity. As a result of this plan, Registrant recorded total pre tax restructuring and other nonrecurring charges for its office products business of $69.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2001. These initiatives created net positive cash flow and improved use of working capital in 2001. Registrant expects that these restructuring initiatives will generate incremental savings of $15 to $20 million in 2002, and that potential 13 initiatives to reduce the businesss manufacturing capacity and distribution infrastructure may result in additional charges. During the fourth quarter of 2000, Registrant recorded a non cash write down of goodwill of $502.6 million ($487.3 million after tax, or $3.09 per share) in its office products business. This action resulted from the significant shortfall in office products earnings, the softening conditions in the office products industry and the ongoing strategic review process, which led to the implementation of additional restructuring actions. Management believes that manufacturing within the office products industry remains highly fragmented. Due to local market preferences for product design and paper sizes, many office product manufacturers supply on a regional basis only. Many manufacturers supply a relatively narrow range of products. ACCOs key competitors on a worldwide basis include Avery Dennison, Esselte, Newell Rubbermaid, Fellowes, 3 M, Eagle OPG Inc. and GBC. Primary competitors for personal organizers in the North American market are Franklin Quest and Day Runner, and key competitors in the international market for personal organizers, although less developed than in the North American market, include Day Runner in the U.K. and Quo Vadis in France. In computer accessories, ACCO competes against Logitech, Fellowes, Microsoft, Targus and others. ACCOs operating companies compete on the basis of product quality, price, service and responsiveness to consumer preferences. ACCOs subsidiaries purchase raw materials, components and products from a variety of sources, including non U.S. vendors, on competitively available terms that fluctuate based on market conditions. ACCO has established substantial and growing production operations in Mexico, helping to reduce its cost base. Other Matters Employees Registrant and its subsidiaries had approximately, as of December 31, 2001, the following number of employees: Home Products 12,239 Spirits and Wine 1,212 Golf Products 4,461 Office Products 6,967 Corporate Office 119 Total 24,998 Environmental Matters Registrant and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling, disposal and clean up of waste materials and otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. While it is not 14 possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that Registrants subsidiaries may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management of Registrant, compliance with the present environmental protection laws, before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position of Registrant and its subsidiaries. (d) Financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales. Registrants subsidiaries operate in the United States, Europe (principally the U.K.) and other areas (principally Canada and Australia). See the table captioned "Information on Business Segments" contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which table is incorporated herein. Registrant has investments in various foreign countries, principally the United Kingdom, as well as Australia and Canada, and, therefore, changes in the value of the currencies of these countries can have an effect on Registrants financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars. Item 2. Properties. Registrant leases its principal executive offices in Lincolnshire, Illinois. Additionally, Registrant continues to lease and has sublet a portion of its premises in Old Greenwich, Connecticut that formerly served as its executive offices. The following table indicates the principal properties of Registrants subsidiaries: 15 Segment Manufacturing Distribution Warehouses Other Plants Centers Owned Leased Owned Leased Owned Leased Owned Leased Home U.S. 26 2 1 14 7 2 12 Asia 1(JV) Canada 1 1 1 Mexico 3 1 Brazil 1 Guatemala 1 Europe 1 Spirits and Wine U.S. 7 1 9 14 Europe 1 Canada 1 1 Australia 1 Golf U.S. 5 1 1 1 3 5 Europe 1 1 1 1 1 5 Canada 1 Asia 2(1 JV) 2 1 1 1 1 9 Africa 1 Office U.S. 4 5 2 1 3 Europe 10 3 2 4 3 Canada 2 1 Mexico 2 1 1 Australia 1 New Zealand 1 Total U.S. 42 8 5 15 10 10 7 29 Total Non U.S. 22 10 4 11 3 2 3 20 TOTAL 66 18 9 26 13 12 10 49 JV Joint Venture Registrant and its subsidiaries are of the opinion that their properties are suitable to their respective businesses and have productive capacities adequate to the needs of such businesses. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Overview On December 22, 1994, Registrant sold The American Tobacco Company ("ATCO") to Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation ("B&W"), at the time a wholly owned subsidiary of B.A.T Industries p.l.c. In connection with the 16 sale, B&W and ATCO ("the Indemnitors") agreed to indemnify Registrant against claims including legal expenses arising from smoking and health and fire safe cigarette matters relating to the tobacco business of ATCO. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims are pending in various jurisdictions against leading tobacco manufacturers, including B&W both individually and as successor by merger to ATCO, based upon allegations that cancer and other ailments have resulted from tobacco use. Registrant has been named as a defendant in some of these cases. These claims generally fall within three categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury and other damages and purporting to be brought on behalf of classes of individual plaintiffs, and (iii) health care cost recovery cases, including class actions, brought by foreign governments, unions, health trusts, federal and state taxpayers and others seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking. As noted below, in 1998, certain United States tobacco companies, including B&W, entered into a Master Settlement Agreement that resolved all remaining health care cost recovery cases brought by the various States, U.S. territories, and the District of Columbia. Damages claimed in some of the smoking and health class actions and remaining health care cost recovery cases range into the billions of dollars. Certain former asbestos manufacturers and asbestos manufacturers personal injury settlement trusts have also sought unspecified amounts in indemnity or contribution in third party actions against all or most of the major domestic tobacco manufacturers. It has also been reported that civil and criminal investigations of tobacco manufacturers are pending before certain prosecutorial and other authorities. Individual Cases As of March 1, 2002, there were approximately 76 smoking and health cases pending on behalf of individual plaintiffs in which Registrant has been named as one of the defendants, compared with approximately 93 such cases as of March 1, 2001. See "List of Pending Cases" below. Class Actions As of March 1, 2002, there were approximately 13 purported smoking and health class actions pending in which Registrant has been named as one of the defendants compared with approximately 18 such cases as of March 1, 2001. See "List of Pending Cases" below. Health Care Cost Recovery Actions As of March 1, 2002, there were approximately 2 health care recovery actions pending in which Registrant has been named as one of the defendants, compared with approximately 4 such cases as of March 1, 2001. See "List of Pending Cases" below. 17 Certain Developments Affecting The Indemnitors In July of 1998, trial began in a Florida action against B&W (individually and as successor by merger to ATCO) and other U.S. tobacco manufacturer defendants brought on behalf of a class of Florida residents allegedly injured as a result of their alleged addiction to cigarettes containing nicotine (Engle v. R. J. Reynolds tobacco Company, et al.). The jury in Phase I of the trial found for the plaintiffs and against certain tobacco manufacturers (including B&W individually and as successor by merger to ATCO). In Phase II of the trial, the same jury addressed the individual claims of the named class representatives. The trial court judge ruled that the jury in Phase II could award an aggregate classwide lump sum amount of punitive damages. This ruling is being challenged by the defendants in Floridas appellate courts. On April 17, 2000, the jury awarded an approximate aggregate amount of $12.7 million to three of the named class representatives, although it also found that the claims of one of the three class representatives may have been barred by the statute of limitations. On July 14, 2000, the jury awarded a total of $144.87 billion in punitive damages against the defendants, including $17.59 billion against Brown and Williamson. On November 6, 2000, Florida Circuit Judge Robert Kaye upheld this jury award, and held that the class of plaintiffs eligible to recover damages should be extended to smokers with illnesses diagnosed more than four years before the lawsuit was filed in 1994. Defendants appeal is pending. Florida law sets a cap of $100 million on the bond that companies must pay while the appeals process is under way. Plaintiffs have argued that this cap is unconstitutional. Registrant is not a party to the Engle litigation. In September of 1999, the United States government filed a recoupment lawsuit in Federal Court in Washington, D.C. against the leading tobacco manufacturers (including B&W individually and as a successor to ATCO) seeking recovery of costs paid by the Federal government for claimed smoking related illness. In September 2000, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the government could not use the Medical Care Recovery Act ("MCRA") or Medicare Secondary Payor ("MSP") insurance provisions as a basis to try to recover government expenses relating to tobacco smokers, and dismissed the counts of the lawsuit relating to these laws. The court ruled that the government could proceed with two counts under the federal RICO statute under which the government seeks disgorgement of all of defendants profits from the sale of tobacco. In October 2000, the United States Government filed a motion for reconsideration seeking a partial reinstatement of the MCRA claim, and, in February 2001, filed an amended complaint repleading the MSP claim. By orders dated July 27, 2001, the Court denied the motion for reconsideration and dismissed with prejudice the MSP claim. A tentative trial date of July 15, 2003 has been set with respect to all remaining claims. Registrant is not a party to this action. Resolution of Health Care Cost Recovery Actions By States, U.S. Territories and the District of Columbia. On November 23, 1998, certain U.S. tobacco companies, including B&W, entered into a Master Settlement Agreement (the "MSA") with certain state attorneys general that would result in the dismissal of all remaining health care reimbursement lawsuits brought by the various States, U.S. territories, 18 and the District of Columbia. Registrant is not a party to the MSA and is not bound by any of the payment obligations or other restrictions of the MSA. Under the MSA, the settling States agreed to dismiss their current health care reimbursement lawsuits and not to refile such suits in the future. The MSA provides for the release by the settling States of claims for past conduct, acts or omissions (including future damages resulting from past conduct, acts or omissions) in any way related, in whole or in part, to the use, sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing or health effects of, the exposure to, or research, statements or warnings about, tobacco products. The release includes any claim that was brought or comparable claims that could have been brought by the States in their health care cost recovery actions. It also includes claims for future conduct, acts or omissions, or claims in any way related, in whole or in part, to the use of or exposure to tobacco products manufactured in the ordinary course of business, including future claims for reimbursement of health care costs allegedly associated with the use of or exposure to tobacco products. All 52 government entities permitted to participate in the MSA, including 46 States, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands and the District of Columbia, have dismissed their health care reimbursement suits pursuant to the MSA. The MSA provides for the release of claims against participating manufacturers, as well as their predecessors, successors, and past, present, and future affiliates. "Affiliate" is defined to include past or present persons or entities who own or control, are owned by or controlled by, or are under common ownership of a 10% or more equity interest. Registrant understands that it is a released party under the terms of the MSA. Under the MSA, participating manufacturers are required to make initial "upfront" payments totaling nearly $13 billion between 1998 and 2003 to the settling States. Additional annual payments must be made beginning in 2000 in perpetuity (starting at $4.5 billion in 2000 and increasing to $9 billion in 2018 and thereafter), and payments to several funds (a "strategic contribution" fund to reward individual States for their contributions to the settlement, a public health foundation, and a public advertising and awareness fund) are also required. Further payments of $300 million per year will also be required, if the market share of the participating manufacturers in the preceding year was at least 99.05%. These payments are subject to various credits and adjustments, depending on industry volume, inflation, and other factors. The initial up front payment will be allocated among the participating manufacturers according to market capitalizations; all other payments are to be allocated according to market share. Moreover, participating manufacturers have agreed to a variety of additional restrictions and limitations, including, for example, restrictions on advertising, marketing and lobbying. The MSA also calls for the participating manufacturers to pay attorneys fees for the States attorneys in the settled litigation. Prior to the MSA, health care cost recovery actions filed by the states of Minnesota, Texas, Florida and Mississippi were settled separately on terms which included monetary payments of several billion dollars. Registrant was not a party to the Minnesota or Texas action and was voluntarily dismissed from the Florida and Mississippi actions. Registrant is not a party to any of the settlements nor is it required to pay any money under these settlements. 19 List of Pending Cases For a list of pending cases, see Exhibit 99 to this Form 10 K and, for a discussion of other pending litigation, see Note 19 "Pending Litigation" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which Note is incorporated herein by reference. List of Terminated Cases For a list of terminated cases, see Exhibit 99 to this Form 10 K. Conclusion Management believes that there are meritorious defenses to the pending actions referred to in Exhibit 99 of this Form 10 K, including the fact that the Registrant never made or sold tobacco, and these actions are being vigorously contested. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the pending litigation. Management believes that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of operations, cash flows or financial condition of Registrant as long as the Indemnitors continue to fulfill their obligations to indemnify Registrant under the aforementioned indemnification agreement (see "Overview" on page 16). Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None. Item 4a. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The name, present positions and offices with Registrant, principal occupations during the past five years and age of each of Registrants present executive officers are as follows: Present positions and offices with Registrant and principal Name occupations during the past five years Age Norman H. Wesley Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Registrant since 52 December 1999; President and Chief Operating Officer of Registrant during 1999; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Fortune Brands Home & Office, Inc. from December 1997 to December 1999; President and Chief Executive Officer of ACCO World Corporation prior thereto. Thomas J. Flocco Senior Vice President Strategy & Corporate Development of Registrant 39 since January 2000; Partner, McKinsey & Company, a management 20 consulting firm, from 1998 to 1999; Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, specializing in the consumer products area, prior thereto. Mark Hausberg Senior Vice President Finance and Treasurer of Registrant since January 52 2000; Vice President and Treasurer prior thereto. Craig P. Omtvedt Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Registrant since 52 January 2000; Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Registrant during 1998 and 1999; Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Registrant during 1997; Vice President Deputy Controller and Chief Internal Auditor of Registrant prior thereto. Mark A. Roche Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Registrant since 47 January 2000; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Registrant during 1999; Vice President and General Counsel during 1998; Vice President and Associate General Counsel of Registrant prior thereto. Nadine A. Heidrich Vice President and Corporate Controller of Registrant since September 2001; 47 Chief Financial Officer of Specialty Elastomers Group, Inc. from 2000 to 2001; Vice President Finance for John Crane, Inc. prior thereto. In the case of each of the above listed executive officers, the occupation or occupations given were the principal occupation and employment during the period or periods indicated. None of such executive officers is related to any other such executive officer. None was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the executive officer and any other person. All executive officers are elected annually. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters. See the information in the tables captioned "Quarterly Common Stock Cash Dividend Payments" and "Quarterly Composite Common Stock Prices" and the discussion relating thereto contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which information and discussion are incorporated herein by reference. On March 1, 2002, there were 29,867 record holders of Registrants common stock, par value $3.125 per share. 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. See the information for 1996 through 2001 in the table captioned "Six Year Consolidated Selected Financial Data" contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See the discussion and analysis under the captions "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results" and "Financial Condition" contained in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which discussion and analysis are incorporated herein by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. See the discussion and analysis under "Market Risk," "Foreign Exchange Contracts" and "Interest Rates" under the caption "Financial Condition" in the 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders of Registrant, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
