FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20070823160602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d- 2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e- 4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
 
On August 23, 2007, Celgene Corporation announced the election of Ernest Mario, Ph.D. to the Companys Board of Directors effective August 22, 2007. Dr. Mario is an experienced corporate director with a distinguished career in global healthcare. Dr. Mario has served as Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of Glaxo Holdings plc., one of the largest and most successful multi-national healthcare companies in the world. Also, Dr. Mario served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ALZA Corporation, a research based global pharmaceutical company with leading drug delivery technologies.
As a Board member, Dr. Mario will receive an annual fee of $55,000 and $2,500 for each Board Meeting attended in person or $500 for each Board Meeting attended telephonically. In addition, Dr. Mario will receive $5,000 annually as a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee. Under the 1995 Non-Employee Directors Incentive Plan, Dr. Mario will be granted a non-qualified option to purchase 25,000 shares of the Companys common stock, which vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Under the 1995 Non-Employee Directors Incentive Plan, Dr. Mario will also be eligible to receive quarterly grants of 4,625 options aggregating 18,500 options annually, which vest one year from the date of grant.
Attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is the Press Release announcing such action.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CELGENE CORPORATION
Date: August 23, 2007
By: Name: David W. Gryska Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ David W. Gryska                                  
/
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
announced the election of Ernest Mario, Ph.D. to the Companys Board of Directors. Dr. Mario is an experienced corporate director with a distinguished career in global healthcare. Dr. Mario has served as Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of Glaxo Holdings plc., one of the largest and most successful multi- national healthcare companies in the world. Also, Dr. Mario served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ALZA Corporation, a research based global pharmaceutical company with leading drug delivery technologies.
SUMMIT, NJ  (August 23, 2007)  Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG)
We are delighted that a dynamic and experienced leader like Ernest Mario is joining our board of directors, said Sol. J. Barer, Ph.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Celgene Corporation. His healthcare and business acumen will contribute greatly to our global objective to maximize the potential of Celgene worldwide.
Dr. Mario has been a Director of Boston Scientific since October 2001 and is currently Chairman of Pharmaceutical Product Development. From 2003 to 2007, he was Chairman and Chief Executive of Reliant Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Mario was recently appointed the Chief Executive Officer of Capnia, Inc.
A former Trustee of Duke University, he serves on the Board of the Duke University Health System. He is a past Chairman of the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education and serves as an advisor to the pharmacy schools at the University of Maryland, the University of Rhode Island and The Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy at Rutgers University. Recipient of the 2007 Remington Medal, pharmacys highest honor, Dr. Mario holds a B.S. in Pharmacy from Rutgers, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Physical Sciences from the University of Rhode Island.
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Companys website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
This release contains forward- looking statements which are subject to known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Companys control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include results of current or pending research and development activities, actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our 10K, 10Q and 8K reports.


