FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20080128124324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On January 28, 2008, Celgene Corporation and Pharmion Corporation announced that the Bundeskartellamt, Germany's Federal Cartel Office in charge of reviewing the antitrust aspects of mergers and acquisitions, has cleared Celgene's pending acquisition of Pharmion Corporation.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated January 28, 2008
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 and shall not be deemed to be "filed."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) and Pharmion Corporation (NASDAQ: PHRM) announced that the Bundeskartellamt, Germany's Federal Cartel Office in charge of reviewing the antitrust aspects of mergers and acquisitions, has cleared Celgene's pending acquisition of Pharmion Corporation.
SUMMIT, NJ  (January 28, 2008)
As previously announced on January 3, 2008, the 30-day waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, expired without the United States Federal Trade Commission requesting additional information.
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey is an integrated global pharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
Pharmion Corporation is a leading global oncology company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative products for the treatment of hematology and oncology patients in the U.S., Europe and additional international markets. Pharmion has a number of products on the market including the world's first approved epigenetic drug, Vidaza, a DNA demethylating agent. For additional information about Pharmion, please visit the company's website at http://www.pharmion.com.
About Pharmion
This release contains forward-looking statements which are subject to known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Companies control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Companies to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include results of current or pending research and development activities, actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and other factors described in the Companies filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our 10K, 10Q and 8K reports.


