FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20080103083218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On January 3, 2008, Celgene Corporation and Pharmion Corporation confirmed that the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, or HSR, thirty day waiting period has expired without the United States Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requesting additional information with regard to Celgenes pending acquisition of Pharmion.
The Companies anticipate that the transaction will close in April of 2008.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated January 3, 2008
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 and shall not be deemed to be filed.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CELGENE CORPORATION
Date: January 3, 2008
By: Name: David W. Gryska Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ David W. Gryska                                           
/

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) and Pharmion Corporation (NASDAQ: PHRM) today confirmed that the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act (HSR) thirty day waiting period has expired without the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting additional information with regard to Celgenes pending acquisition of Pharmion.
SUMMIT, NJ  (January 3, 2008)
The Companies anticipate that the transaction will close in April of 2008.
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey is an integrated global pharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Companys website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
Pharmion Corporation is a leading global oncology company focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing innovative products for the treatment of hematology and oncology patients in the U.S., Europe and additional international markets. Pharmion has a number of products on the market including the worlds first approved epigenetic drug, Vidaza, a DNA demethylating agent. For additional information about Pharmion, please visit the companys website at http://www.pharmion.com.
About Pharmion
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and involve a number of known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under Celgenes or Pharmions control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Celgene or Pharmion to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include results of current or pending research and development activities, actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and those factors detailed in Celgenes or Pharmions filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and neither Celgene nor Pharmion undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.


