FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20080522171931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed to amend and supplement Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Celgene Corporation on March 7, 2008 to include the unaudited pro forma financial statements required pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits
(b)  Pro forma financial information
The pro forma financial information required by this Item is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CELGENE CORPORATION
By: David W. Gryska Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ David W. Gryska                                    
/
Dated: May 22, 2008
 

Exhibit 99-1
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements presented below are based on, and should be read together with, the historical information that Celgene Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively "Celgene" or the "Company") and Pharmion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively "Pharmion") have presented in their respective filings with the SEC. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 gives effect to the merger described in note 1 to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements as if it had occurred on December 31, 2007, and consolidates the historical balance sheets of Celgene and Pharmion as of December 31, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 is presented as if the merger had occurred on January 1, 2007, and combines the historical results of Pharmion and Celgene for the year ended December 31, 2007. The historical financial information is adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that (i) are directly attributable to the merger, (ii) are factually supportable and (iii) with respect to the statements of operations, are expected to have a continuing impact on combined results.
The pro forma adjustments related to the merger are based on a preliminary purchase price allocation whereby the cost to acquire Pharmion was allocated to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values. The allocation of the purchase price is subject to finalization of Celgenes management analysis of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Pharmion as of the acquisition date. The final allocation of the purchase price may result in additional adjustments to the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities and may also result in adjustments to depreciation, amortization and charges for acquired in-process research and development. The final allocation is expected to be completed as soon as practicable but no later than 12 months after the acquisition date.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect the realization of potential cost savings, or any related restructuring or integration costs. Although Celgene believes that certain cost savings may result from the merger, there can be no assurance that these cost savings will be achieved.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods or the results that actually would have been realized if the proposed merger had been completed as of the dates indicated.
 
 
 
 
(1) Celgene held a total of 1,939,598 shares of Pharmion common stock, or approximately 5.2% of the outstanding shares of Pharmion common stock.
For purposes of this pro forma analysis, the above purchase price has been allocated based on an estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
(2) The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets consists primarily of developed product rights for the following currently marketed products: Vidaza IV in the U.S. market, Thalidomide Pharmion in certain foreign markets and other minor commercialized products and was derived using a valuation from an independent third-party valuation firm. It also includes the fair value associated with certain compassionate use rights in Europe. The weighted average amortization period for these assets, in total, is 6.5 years. The weighted average amortization period for compassionate use rights is 1.2 years, while the weighted average amortization period for the developed product rights is 7.1 years.
 
In-process research and development, or IPR&D, represents compounds under development by Pharmion at the date of acquisition that had not yet achieved regulatory approval for marketing in certain markets or had not yet been completed and have no future alternative use. The $1.74 billion estimated fair value of these intangible assets was derived using the multi-period excess-earnings method, a form of the income approach, as determined by a valuation from an independent third-party valuation firm. The IPR&D primarily related to development and approval initiatives for Vidaza IV in the E.U. market, Vidaza Oral in the U.S. and E.U. markets and Thalidomide Pharmion in the E.U. market.
In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, "Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method," the purchase price allocated to IPR&D intangible assets has been expensed to income immediately subsequent to the acquisition because the compounds do not have any alternative future use.
The allocation of the purchase price is subject to finalization of Celgene's management analysis of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Pharmion as of the acquisition date. The final allocation of the purchase price may result in additional adjustments to the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities and may also result in adjustments to depreciation, amortization and acquired in-process research and development. The final allocation is expected to be completed as soon as practicable but no later than 12 months after the acquisition date.
(3) The acquisition cost of Pharmion includes liabilities related primarily to the planned exit of certain business activities, involuntary terminations and the relocation of certain Pharmion employees. The cost of these restructuring activities is estimated to be approximately $69.0 million, which includes employee severance costs of $16.8 million, early lease and contract termination costs of $45.0 million, facility closing costs of $3.8 million and various other costs primarily associated with exiting certain business activities of Pharmion. Celgene is in the process of initiating the above-noted actions included in the restructuring plan and expects that all actions will be substantially completed within one year of the effective date of the acquisition.
(4) The excess of purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represents the goodwill amount resulting from the acquisition. The amount allocated to goodwill is preliminary and subject to change, depending on the results of the final purchase price allocation. We do not expect any portion of this goodwill to be deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill attributable to the acquisition of Pharmion has been recorded on the unaudited condensed consolidated Balance Sheet and will not be amortized, but is subject to review for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
Transactions between Celgene and Pharmion primarily consisted of royalties, license fees and supply payments that Pharmion paid Celgene pursuant to marketing rights licensed to Pharmion and a supply agreement for Thalidomide Pharmion. Pharmion had the exclusive rights to market Thalidomide Pharmion in all countries except the US, Canada, Mexico, Japan and China, excluding Hong Kong, as well as the rights to all existing and future clinical data relating to the product developed by Celgene. Celgene was also Pharmion's exclusive supplier of Thalidomide Pharmion formulations that Pharmion sells in certain licensed territories. Pharmion paid Celgene a royalty/license fee and product supply payments in the countries included within Pharmion's territory. Historically, Pharmion also funded certain amounts incurred by Celgene for the conduct of Thalidomide Pharmion clinical trials and the actual costs of completing an ongoing Celgene-sponsored clinical trial for thalidomide in multiple myeloma. Celgene accounted for these arrangements in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04-1, "Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination." In addition, Celgene has valued the reacquired thalidomide-related rights in the valuation of developed product rights described above.
Upon completion of the merger, transactions occurring in connection with these arrangements are considered intercompany transactions. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements, all significant intercompany balances and transactions related to these arrangements have been eliminated.
 
 
Income tax provision adjustments of $(56,827) represent the tax effect of pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations adjustments.
 
 


