FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20090112113306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 12, 2009, Celgene Corporation announced it will review 2008 achievements and provide outlook for 2009 milestones at the J.P. Morgan 27 Annual Healthcare Conference. For 2008, Celgene expects to exceed its annual guidance and advance multiple clinical, regulatory, commercial and financial initiatives in all areas of its global operations, underscored by European Commission approval for VIDAZA and globalization of Celgene operations in more than 65 countries.
th
The information in this Report, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated January 12, 2009
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed to be "filed."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CELGENE CORPORATION
Date: January 12, 2009
By: Name: David W. Gryska Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ David W. Gryska                              
/

Exhibit 99.1
Exceptional 2008 Operating Performance Exceeding Annual Guidance with Record Revenue and Profit Growth
Celgene Forecasts Strong Revenue and Earnings Growth in 2009
Recent Developments Strategically Position Celgene for Significant Long-Term Global Growth
 
2009 Corporate Objectives
 
 Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) will review 2008 achievements and provide outlook for 2009 milestones at the J.P. Morgan 27 Annual Healthcare Conference. For 2008, Celgene expects to exceed its annual guidance and advance multiple clinical, regulatory, commercial and financial initiatives in all areas of its global operations, underscored by European Commission approval for VIDAZA and globalization of Celgene operations in more than 65 countries.
SUMMIT, NJ  (January 12, 2009)
th
The Company's commercial performance is based on record total revenue and profits supported by the ongoing global launches of REVLIMID, VIDAZA and Global THALOMID/thalidomide, as well as other product revenue streams that include ALKERAN, FOCALIN XR and the Ritalin Family of products. As of March 31, 2009, ALKERANwill no longer be commercialized by Celgene as we conclude the ALKERANlicense agreement with GlaxoSmithKline. The successful growth of product revenue continues to reflect the positive reception of the Company's powerful portfolio of disease-altering cancer therapies such as REVLIMID, VIDAZA and Global THALOMID/thalidomide by hematologists/oncologists worldwide. The substantial interest in the unprecedented survival benefits of the IMiDs and epigenetic science-based therapies is based on an ever-expanding volume of clinical findings that continue to be reported at major international medical meetings and in peer-reviewed publications worldwide.
st
In 2008, preliminary unaudited results indicate that total revenue will increase by more than 58 percent, year-over-year, to approximately $2.233 billion, excluding sales related to non-core former Pharmion products, Innohep and Refludan, to be divested. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are expected to increase to approximately $1.55 to $1.56. The Company will report its 2008 full-year financial results on January 29, 2009.
2009 total revenue growth is targeted to increase approximately 20 percent year-over-year to a range of $2.6 to $2.7 billion, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are targeted to increase approximately 35 percent year-over-year to a range of $2.05 to $2.15.
Non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and management with supplemental measures of operating performance and trends that facilitate comparisons between periods before, during and after certain items that would not otherwise be apparent on a GAAP basis. Certain unusual or non-recurring items that management does not believe affect the Company's basic operations do not meet the GAAP definition of unusual or non-recurring items. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for similar GAAP items. We define non-GAAP diluted earnings per share amounts as non-GAAP net income divided by the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding. Our definition of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share may differ from similarly named measures used by others.
A webcast of the Company's J.P. Morgan 27 Annual Healthcare Conference presentation, scheduled for Monday, January 12, 2009 at 8 a.m. PT (11 a.m. ET), can be accessed by going to the Celgene Web site, www.celgene.com, and clicking on "Investor Relations", and then "webcast event". This event will be archived and accessible until 12 p.m. ET, January 19, 2009.
Webcast
th
 
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
This release contains forward-looking statements which are subject to known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Company's control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include results of current or pending research and development activities, actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and those factors detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our 10K, 10Q and 8K reports.


