FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20091217091808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
On December 16, 2009, Celgene Corporation (the Company) announced the election of Carrie S. Cox to the Companys Board of Directors (the Board), effective December 16, 2009. Ms. Cox is an experienced corporate director with a distinguished career in global healthcare. She has served as executive vice president and president of Schering-Ploughs Global Pharmaceutical Business. Before joining Schering-Plough, Ms. Cox served as executive vice president and president of Pharmacia Corporations Global Prescription Business.
As a Board member, Ms. Cox will receive an annual fee of $60,000. In addition, under the Companys 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, on December 16, 2009, the Company granted to Ms. Cox a non-qualified option to purchase 25,000 shares of the Companys common stock. The option will vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is the Press Release announcing the election.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On December 16, 2009, the Board approved and adopted an amendment to the Companys bylaws (the Amendment) to provide for the election of directors by majority voting in uncontested elections rather than by plurality voting. Plurality voting is retained for contested elections. The Amendment took effect upon adoption by the Board.
In connection with the Amendment, the Board also adopted a policy in furtherance of the majority voting principles of the Amendment. Under the Boards policy, in uncontested elections, an incumbent director nominee who does not receive the required votes for re-election is expected to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation within 90 days after certification of the election results and the Board will act on the committees recommendation. The Company will promptly disclose the Boards decision regarding whether to accept the tendered resignation (or, if applicable, the reason for rejecting the tendered resignation).
The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.7 Voting.
Except as otherwise provided by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws and except for the election of directors, at any meeting duly called and held at which a quorum is present, a majority of the votes cast at such meeting upon a given question by the holders of outstanding shares of stock of all classes of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon who are present in person or by proxy shall decide such question. At any meeting duly called and held for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, each nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders (acting as such) of shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to elect such directors at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article II, Section 2.2 of these By-laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the day next preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.

Exhibit 99.1
announced the election of Carrie S. Cox to the Company's Board of Directors. Ms. Cox is an experienced corporate director with a distinguished career in global healthcare. She has served as executive vice president and president of Schering-Plough's Global Pharmaceutical Business, one of the largest and most successful multi-national healthcare companies in the world. Before joining Schering-Plough, Ms. Cox served as executive vice president and president of Pharmacia Corporation's Global Prescription Business.
SUMMIT, NJ  (December 16, 2009)  Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG)
"We are delighted that a dynamic and experienced leader like Carrie Cox is joining our Board of Directors," said Sol. J. Barer, Ph.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Celgene Corporation." Her 25-plus years of leadership and accomplishments in global healthcare will contribute greatly to our objective to become a pre-eminent biopharmaceutical company worldwide."
Ms. Cox is a member of the Board of Directors of Texas Instruments and served on their audit and compensation committees, as well as recently being appointed to the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health. She is also a member of the Harvard School of Public Health's Health Policy and Management Executive Council and a member of the Board of Overseers of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology.
FORTUNE magazine named Ms. Cox to its List of the "50 Most Powerful Women in Business." She has been named "Healthcare Businesswoman of the Year" by the Healthcare Businesswomen's Association and a "Woman of Influence" by , New Jersey's leading business magazine. Ms. Cox is a graduate of the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy.
NJ Biz
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
 
This release contains forward-looking statements which are subject to known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under Celgene's control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of Celgene to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include results of current or pending research and development activities, actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and other factors described in Celgene's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as its 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports.


