FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20101013172336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On October 13, 2010, Celgene Corporation and Abraxis Bioscience, Inc. (Abraxis) announced that the shareholders of Abraxis approved the merger agreement between the companies.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated October 13, 2010
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 and shall not be deemed to be filed.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CELGENE CORPORATION
Date: October 13, 2010
By: Name: Jacqualyn Fouse Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Jacqualyn Fouse                           
 

Exhibit 99.1
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) and Abraxis Bioscience, Inc. (NASDAQ: ABII) today announced that Abraxis' shareholders approved the merger agreement between the companies. The companies anticipate the closing of the transaction will occur on October 15, 2010.
SUMMIT, NJ and LOS ANGELES, Calif.  (October 13, 2010) 
The transaction will bring Abraxis' targeted cancer therapies, led by ABRAXANE, and its innovative technology together with Celgene's portfolio of more than 30 clinical programs addressing high unmet medical needs in serious and debilitating diseases in hematology/oncology and inflammation.
nab
"We appreciate this vote of support by Abraxis' shareholders and look forward to bringing together the talent and resources of both organizations unified in vision, mission and values, and aligned through a commitment to improving the lives of patients worldwide," said Bob Hugin, Chief Executive Officer of Celgene Corporation.
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
Abraxis BioScience is a fully integrated global biotechnology company dedicated to the discovery, development and delivery of next-generation therapeutics and core technologies that offer patients safer and more effective treatments for cancer and other critical illnesses. The company's portfolio includes chemotherapeutic compound (ABRAXANE), which is based on the company's proprietary tumor targeting technology known as the platform. The first FDA approved product to use this platform, ABRAXANE, was launched in 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and is now approved in 39 countries. The company continues to expand the platform through a robust clinical program and deep product pipeline. Abraxis trades on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol ABII. For more information about the company and its products, please visit http://www.abraxisbio.com.
About Abraxis BioScience, Inc.
nab
nab
nab
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under Celgene's control. The company's actual results, performance, or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements include the possibility that the expected benefits from the merger will not be realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time period; the risk that Celgene's and Abraxis' businesses will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; any actions taken by either of the companies, including but not limited to, restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions); and other risks that are discussed in Celgene's filings with the SEC, such as Celgene's Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports and in Abraxis Bioscience's filings with the SEC, such as its Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.


