FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20100804123603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On August 4, 2010, Celgene Corporation (Celgene) announced that it has received verbal confirmation of early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act (HSR) 30-day waiting period without the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting additional information with regard to Celgene's pending acquisition of Abraxis Bioscience, Inc. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Celgene anticipates that the transaction will be completed in the third or fourth quarter of 2010.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated August 4, 2010
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 and shall not be deemed to be "filed."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced that it has received verbal confirmation of early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act (HSR) 30-day waiting period without the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting additional information with regard to Celgene's pending acquisition of Abraxis Bioscience, Inc. (NASDAQ: ABII).
SUMMIT, NJ  (August 4, 2010)
Celgene anticipates that the transaction will be completed in the third or fourth quarter of 2010.
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey is an integrated global pharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
About Celgene
Abraxis BioScience is a fully integrated global biotechnology company dedicated to the discovery, development and delivery of next-generation therapeutics and core technologies that offer patients safer and more effective treatments for cancer and other critical illnesses. The company's portfolio includes chemotherapeutic compound (ABRAXANE), which is based on the company's proprietary tumor targeting technology known as the platform. The first FDA approved product to use this platform, ABRAXANE, was launched in 2005 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and is now approved in 39 countries. The company continues to expand the platform through a robust clinical program and deep product pipeline. Abraxis trades on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol ABII. For more information about the company and its products, please visit http://www.abraxisbio.com.
About Abraxis BioScience, Inc.
nab
nab
nab
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the company's control. The company's actual results, performance, or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements are discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as the company's
Form 10-K
, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.


