FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20101018170129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     In connection with the acquisition of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. ("Abraxis") by Celgene Corporation ("Celgene") pursuant to the Merger (as defined below), on October 15, 2010, Celgene entered into the Contingent Value Rights Agreement (the "CVR Agreement") with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as trustee. The Contingent Value Rights ("CVRs") are described more fully under the caption "Description of the CVRs" in Celgene's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-168369), filed on July 29, 2010 pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and supplemented (the "Form S-4"), which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
     References to, and descriptions of, the CVR Agreement as set forth herein are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the CVR Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Celgene's Report on Form 8-A filed on October 15, 2010, and which is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On October 15, 2010, Celgene completed the merger (the "Merger") contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of June 30, 2010, by and among Abraxis, Celgene and Artistry Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Celgene ("Merger Sub"), with Abraxis as the surviving corporation. Following completion of the Merger, Abraxis became a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Celgene.
     At the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Abraxis (the "Abraxis Common Stock") issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than treasury shares of Abraxis and any shares of Abraxis Common Stock owned by Celgene, Merger Sub or any wholly owned subsidiary of Celgene or Abraxis), was converted into the right to receive (i) an amount in cash, without interest, equal to $58.00, (ii) 0.2617 of a share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Celgene (the "Celgene Common Stock"), and (iii) one CVR issued by Celgene subject to and in accordance with the CVR Agreement.
     At the Effective Time, all outstanding stock options ("Options"), stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and restricted stock units ("RSUs") of Abraxis were canceled. Holders of Options and SARs with an exercise or base price below $73.14 were entitled to receive at the Effective Time, for each share of Abraxis Common Stock subject to such Option or SAR, (i) a cash payment equal to the difference between $73.14 and the exercise price or base price of the Option or SAR, as applicable, and (ii) one CVR. Holders of Options and SARs with an exercise or base price above $73.14 were given the right to elect, during a period of at least five business days ending the business day preceding the closing of the Merger, to pay to Abraxis a cash payment equal to the difference between the exercise price or base price of the Option or SAR, as applicable, and $73.14, and in exchange receive one CVR. At the Effective Time, holders of RSUs were entitled to receive (i) $73.14 in cash and (ii) one CVR for each RSU.
     A total of approximately $2.48 billion in cash will be paid, and 10,660,196 shares of Celgene Common Stock and 43,273,855 CVRs will be issued, as consideration for the Merger.
 
The Merger and the associated transactions are described more fully in the Form S-4, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
     On October 15, 2010, Celgene issued 43,273,855 CVRs. The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On October 15, 2010, Celgene issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 8.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
     The financial statements of Abraxis required to be filed pursuant to this Item 9.01(a) were previously reported in the Form S-4 under the caption "Selected Historical Consolidated and Combined Financial Data of Abraxis." Pursuant to General Instruction B.3 of Form 8-K, these financial statements are not additionally reported herein.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The pro forma financial statements of Celgene required to be filed pursuant to this Item 9.01(b) were previously reported in the Form S-4 under the caption "Selected Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Data." Pursuant to General Instruction B.3 of Form 8-K, these pro forma financial statements are not additionally reported herein.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 18, 2010.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced it has completed its acquisition of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. For each share of Abraxis common stock, Abraxis shareholders will receive (i) $58.00 in cash (ii) 0.2617 shares of Celgene common stock, and (iii) one tradeable Contingent Value Right (CVR), which entitles its holder to receive a pro rata share of potential payments for future regulatory milestones and commercial royalties.
SUMMIT, NJ  (October 15, 2010) 
The CVR's are listed on NASDAQ under the symbol "CELGZ" and are anticipated to begin trading at the market open on Monday, October 18, 2010. Abraxis shares will be delisted from NASDAQ and trading will cease by the close of business on Friday, October 15, 2010.
The transaction adds ABRAXANE for Injectable Suspension (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension) (albumin-bound) to the company's existing portfolio of leading cancer products and offers another significant scientific platform that may drive future development.
"By bringing together the tremendous potential of Abraxis with the experience and success of Celgene, we are building a global leader in oncology," said Bob Hugin, Chief Executive Officer of Celgene Corporation. "We have now bolstered our solid tumor pipeline with a therapy that we believe has great potential in areas of significant unmet medical need. We believe that our combined capabilities can maximize the clinical, regulatory and commercial potential of ABRAXANE and technology worldwide."
nab
Celgene expects the acquisition to be modestly dilutive to non-GAAP earnings in 2011 and accretive to non-GAAP earnings in 2012 and beyond.
About ABRAXANE
ABRAXANE is a solvent-free chemotherapy treatment option for metastatic breast cancer which was developed using Abraxis BioScience's proprietary technology platform. This protein-bound chemotherapy agent combines paclitaxel with albumin, a naturally-occurring human protein. By wrapping the albumin around the active drug, ABRAXANE can be administered to patients at higher doses, delivering higher concentrations of paclitaxel to the tumor site than solvent-based paclitaxel. ABRAXANE is currently in various stages of investigation for the treatment of the following cancers: expanded applications for metastatic breast, non-small cell lung, malignant melanoma, pancreatic and gastric.
nab
 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved ABRAXANE for Injectable Suspension (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension) (albumin-bound) in January 2005 for the treatment of breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within six months of adjuvant chemotherapy. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline unless clinically contraindicated. For the full prescribing information for ABRAXANE please visit http://www.abraxane.com.
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under Celgene's control. The Company's actual results, performance, or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements include the possibility that the expected benefits from the merger will not be realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time period; the risk that Celgene's and Abraxis' businesses will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; any actions taken by either of the companies, including but not limited to, restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions); and other risks that are discussed in Celgene's filings with the SEC, such as Celgene's Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports and in Abraxis BioScience's filings with the SEC, such as its Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.


