FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20101004092830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On October 4, 2010, Celgene Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release announcing the commencement of its public offering of senior unsecured notes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced its intention to offer, subject to market and other conditions, senior unsecured notes under a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The interest rate, the maturity dates and other key terms of the offering are to be determined at the time of pricing.
SUMMIT, NJ  (October 4, 2010) 
Celgene expects to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include, without limitation, further development of Celgene's clinical and preclinical programs, expansion of Celgene's international operations, capital expenditures, strategic transactions and to meet working capital needs.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are acting as joint book-running managers. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus, which is filed as part of Celgene's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3, may be obtained from any of the joint book-running managers.
An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may also be obtained at no charge at the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at .
www.sec.gov
The notes are being offered pursuant to an effective registration statement on Form S-3 that Celgene filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the notes described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the laws of such jurisdiction. The offering of the notes will be made only by means of a preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus, which is filed as part of Celgene's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3.
 
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Company's control. The Company's actual results, performance or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as the Company's Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.


