FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20110906171942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
 
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
 
On September 2, 2011, Celgene Corporation (the "Company") entered into a commercial paper program (the "Program") under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the "Notes") on a  private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000. The Program was entered into pursuant to Commercial Paper Dealer Agreements with various dealers, each agreement being dated as of September 2, 2011 (collectively, the "Dealer Agreement").
 
Under the Program, the Company may issue Notes from time to time, and proceeds of the Notes will be used for general corporate purposes.  The Program provides the terms under which the dealer will either purchase from the Company or arrange for the sale by the Company of the Notes pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as well as under state securities laws.
 
The Dealer Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions.
 
The maturities of the Notes may vary, but may not exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The Notes will be sold under customary terms to the dealer or in the commercial paper market and will be issued at a discount from par, or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear varying interest rates on a fixed or floating basis.  No direct financial obligations of the Company are outstanding under the Program as of the date hereof.
 
Simultaneously with the commencement of the Program, the Company, as the borrower, entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit facility by and among the Company, the financial institutions party thereto (the "Lenders"), and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Lenders, providing for revolving credit commitments in the aggregate amount of $1,000,000,000 (the "Credit Facility").   Subject to certain conditions, the Company has the right to increase the amount of the Credit Facility (but in no event more than one time per annum), up to a maximum aggregate amount of $1,250,000,000.
 
The Credit Facility has a five-year term and amounts may be borrowed in U.S. dollars for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes.  No proceeds from the Credit Facility were drawn down at closing.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) the Base Rate, a fluctuating rate equal to the Applicable Margin plus the highest of (x) Citibank, N.A.'s Base Rate, (y) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% and (z) one-month LIBOR plus 1.00% or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate, a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR plus the Applicable Margin. The Applicable Margin is determined based on a pricing grid and is dependent on the Company's public debt ratings.
 
The Credit Facility also requires payment to the lenders of certain customary fees, which fees are also based on a pricing grid and dependent on the Company's public debt ratings.  Voluntary prepayments of advances may be paid without penalty, with advance notice of prepayment required for Eurodollar Rate advances only.
 
The Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that we believe are usual and customary for senior unsecured credit facilities, including certain financial maintenance covenants.
 
The negative covenants include, among other things, limitations (each of which is subject to customary exceptions for financings of this type) on the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to:
 
o
                
incur liens;
o
                
merge;
o
                
in the case of the subsidiaries only, to incur debt; and
o
                
to change the nature of their businesses.
 
The Credit Facility also contains customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate) including among others: nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts; representations or warranties materially incorrect; failure to comply with covenants; cross-default to payment default on principal aggregating $1,000,000, or other events accelerating such debt; failure to pay a final judgment or court order in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate; bankruptcy,
 
 
liquidation, or the appointment of a receiver or similar official or institution of any such proceeding if not dismissed; failure to comply with ERISA; or change of control of the Company.
 
A copy of the Credit Facility is attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.  The description of the Credit Facility is a summary only and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Credit Facility.
 
ITEM 9.01 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
10.1
        
Five Year Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, dated as of September 2, 2011
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
Schedules
 
Schedule I - List of Applicable Lending Offices
 
Schedule 5.02(a) - Existing Liens
 
Schedule 5.02(c) - Existing Subsidiary Debt
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
CELGENE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") listed on the signature pages hereof, and CITIBANK, N.A. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Borrower
Initial Lenders
Citibank
Agent
 
 
SECTION 1.01.  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
 
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Advance).
Advance
Type
 
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 
"" means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank at its office at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account No. 36852248, Attention:  Bank Loan Syndications.
Agent's Account
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
"" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
 
"" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
 
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 8.07), and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(d).
Assuming Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(e)(i)(B).
Assumption Agreement
 
"" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the highest of:
Base Rate
 
(a)        the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibank's base rate;
 
(b)        1/2 of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate; and
 
(c)        the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month ("One Month LIBOR") plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
 
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Borrowing
 
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Code
 
"" means as to any Lender (a) the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I, (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Assumption, the amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.04 or increased pursuant to Section 2.19.
Commitment
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Commitment Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Commitment Increase
 
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
 
"" means total assets intangible assets, in each case as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
minus
 
"", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.08.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business that are (i) not overdue by more than 60 days or (ii) being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (f) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit, (g) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above or clause (h) below and other payment obligations (collectively, "") guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Guaranteed Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Guaranteed Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Guaranteed Debt or to assure the holder of such Guaranteed Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, and (h) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above (including Guaranteed Debt) secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt.
Debt
Guaranteed Debt
 
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States of America, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
"" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 
"" means at any time, subject to Section 2.18(c), (i) any Lender that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make an Advance or make any other payment due hereunder (each, a ""), unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding has not been satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing), (ii) any Lender that has notified the Agent or the Borrower in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, unless such writing or statement states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding cannot be satisfied (which conditions precedent, together with the applicable default, if any, will be specifically identified in such writing or public statement), (iii) any Lender that has defaulted on its funding obligations under other loan agreements or credit agreements generally under which it has commitments to extend credit or that has notified, or whose Parent Company has notified, the Agent or the Borrower in writing, or has stated publicly, that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under loan agreements or credit agreements generally, (iv) any Lender that has, for
Defaulting Lender
funding obligation
three or more Business Days after written request of the Agent or the Borrower, failed to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Borrower that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (iv) upon the Agent's and the Borrower's receipt of such written confirmation), or (v) any Lender with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing with respect to such Lender or its Parent Company;
provided
that a Lender Insolvency Event shall not be deemed to occur with respect to a Lender or its Parent Company solely as a result of the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or Parent Company by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof where such action does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender
.  Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any of clauses (i) through (v) above will be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender will be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.18(c)) upon notification of such determination by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 
"" means, for any period, net income (or net loss) the sum of (a) interest expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation expense (d) amortization expense, (e) extraordinary losses, (f) losses from discontinued operations, (g) non-cash charges for increases in value of contingent consideration and (h) all other non-cash charges and non-cash losses which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period the sum of (i) non-cash gains which to not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, (ii) extraordinary gains, (iii) non-cash gains for decreases in value of contingent consideration and (iv) gains from discontinued operations, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP for such period.
EBITDA
plus
minus
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 8.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 8.07(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
 
"" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or related to the foregoing and arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
 
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or
Environmental Law
guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
 
"" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of Section 4043(b) of ERISA are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) a determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA); or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
 
"" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered by the
Eurodollar Rate
principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of such Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period.  If the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.07.
subject
however
 
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
 
"" for any Interest Period for all Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 
"" means, with respect to the Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its Applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.17(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed by the United States on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Applicable Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with Section 2.13(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.13 and (d) with respect to any Lender or the Agent, any taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
 
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code in effect on the date hereof.
FATCA
 
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business
Federal Funds Rate
Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
 
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America.  For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural Person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
 
"" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Increase Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Increasing Lender
 
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.08.
Information
 
"" means the information memorandum dated August 11, 2011 used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
 
"" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
 
(a)        the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination Date;
 
(b)        Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(c)        whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
 
(d)        whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 
"" means the aggregate amount invested by investors that are not Affiliates of the Borrower in connection with any receivables securitization program and paid to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as reduced by the aggregate amounts received by such investors from the payment of receivables and applied to reduce such invested amounts.
Invested Amount
 
"" means that (a) a Lender or its Parent Company is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or is otherwise insolvent or (b) such Lender or its Parent Company has become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
 
"" means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.19 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07.
Lenders
 
"" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Lien
 
"" means any material adverse change in the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
 
"" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
"" means any Lender that does not approve any consent, waiver or amendment that (i) requires the approval of all affected Lenders in accordance with the terms of Section 8.01 and (ii) has been approved by the Required Lenders.
Non-Approving Lender
 
"" means, at any time, each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender at such time.
Non-Defaulting Lender
 
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.15 in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender.
Note
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
 
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any Notes or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note.
Other Taxes
 
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, or if such Lender does not have a bank holding company, then any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Stock of such Lender.
Parent Company
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).
Participant
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).
Participation Register
 
"" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001.
Patriot Act
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
 
"" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced:  (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers',
Permitted Liens
 
 
workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that (i) are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or (ii) are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws, unemployment insurance or other types of social security benefits or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations, the performance of trade contracts, bids, renders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), appeal bonds, leases, government contracts or customs bonds and other similar obligations, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business, (d) easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes; (e) financing statements with respect to a lessor's rights in and to personal property leased to such Person in the ordinary course of such Person's business; and (f) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provisions relating to (i) banker's liens, (ii) liens in favor of securities intermediaries and (iii) rights of set off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or securities accounts or other funds maintained with depository institutions or securities intermediaries.
 
"" means any natural Person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
 
"" means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency.  For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if neither S&P nor Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 6 under the definition of "" or "", as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the higher rating unless the such ratings differ by two or more levels, in which case the applicable level will be deemed to be one level above the lower of such levels; (d) if any rating established by S&P or Moody's shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (e) if S&P or Moody's shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be.
Public Debt Rating
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
 
"" means Citibank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.
Reference Banks
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(c).
Register
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, administrators, managers, advisors and representatives of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Commitments.  The Commitment of any Defaulting Lender shall be disregarded in determining Required Lenders at any time.
Required Lenders
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any  ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
 
"" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
"" means the earlier of (a) September 2, 2016 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.04 or 6.01.
Termination Date
 
"" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
SECTION 1.02.  .  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from"  means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03.  .  All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 5.01(i) ("").  If at any time any change in generally accepted accounting principles would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in generally accepted accounting principles (subject to the approval of the Borrower and the Required Lenders); that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Agent and the Lenders, if necessary for the determination of
Accounting Terms
GAAP
provided
compliance with Section 5.03, a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in generally accepted accounting principles.
 
SECTION 1.04.  .  The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."  The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall."  Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement, (e) any reference to any law or regulation herein shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (f) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights
Terms Generally
 
 
SECTION 2.01.  .  Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding such Lender's Commitment.  Each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments.  Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.09 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.
The Advances
 
SECTION 2.02.  .  (a)  Each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances or (y) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier.  Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, initial Interest Period for each such Advance.  Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing.  After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02.
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
(b)        Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurodollar Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than $10,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.07 or 2.11 and (ii) the Eurodollar Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than eight separate Borrowings.
 
(c)        Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.  In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
 
(d)        Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Base Rate Advances and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(e)        The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Advances and to make payments pursuant to Section 8.04(c) are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Advance or to make any payment under Section 8.04(c) on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Advance or to make its payment under Section 8.04(c).
 
SECTION 2.03.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's unused Commitment from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the later of the Effective Date and the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing September 30, 2011, and on the Termination Date, that no Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive any commitment fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Fees
Commitment Fee
provided
 
(b)        .  The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
 
SECTION 2.04.  .  The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
SECTION 2.05.  .  The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of each Lender on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender and then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances
 
SECTION 2.06.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
(i)         .  During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
 
(ii)        .  During such periods as such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
plus
 
(b)        .  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrower to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above, , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.07.  .  (a)  If the Reuters LIBOR01 Page is unavailable, each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurodollar Rate.  If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks.  The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.06(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.06(a)(ii).
Interest Rate Determination
 
(b)        If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
(c)        If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
(d)        On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $10,000,000, such Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
(e)        Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended.
 
(f)        If Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any Eurodollar Rate Advances,
 
(i)         the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances,
 
(ii)        with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and
 
(iii)       the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
SECTION 2.08.  .  The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.07 and 2.11, Convert all Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b).  Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the initial
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
Interest Period for each such Advance.  Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
 
SECTION 2.09.  .  The Borrower may, upon notice at least three Business Days' prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, and not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof  and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(e).
Prepayments of Advances
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.10.  .  (a)  .  If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
Increased Costs Generally
 
(i)         impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
 
(ii)        subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurodollar Rate Advance made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by Section 2.13 and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
 
(iii)       impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Advances made by such Lender;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making, converting to, continuing or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Advance or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Advance, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
(b)        .  If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the Applicable Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Advances made by, such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Adequacy
 
(c)        .  A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as
Certificates for Reimbursement
specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
 
(d)        .  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions, and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
 
SECTION 2.11.  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (a) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.12.  .  (a)  The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off,  not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at the Agent's Account in same day funds.  The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or commitment fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.13 or 8.04(e)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.19, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender.  Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
 
(b)        The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
 
 
(c)
                              
All computations of interest based on Citibank's base rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or One Month LIBOR and of commitment fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or commitment fees are payable.  Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(d)
                              
Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or commitment fee, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
(e)
                              
Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender.  If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
 
SECTION 2.13.  .  (a)  .  Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
(b)
                              
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
.  Without limiting the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
 
(c)
                              
Indemnification by the Borrower
.  The Borrower shall indemnify the Agent and each Lender, within 10 Business Days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate (which certificate shall attach appropriate supporting documentation) as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Agent), or by the Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(d)
                              
Evidence of Payments
.  As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority with respect to payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any Note, the Borrower shall deliver to the Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(e)
                              
Status of Lenders
.  Any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
 
Each Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
 
(i)
                                  
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States of America is a party,
 
(ii)
                               
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
 
(iii)
                            
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of  Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
(iv)
                           
any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
 
(f)
                                
Treatment of Certain Refunds
.  If the Agent or a Lender determines that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Agent or such Lender in the event the Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This paragraph shall not be construed to require the Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
 
(g)
                              
FATCA
.  If a payment made to a Lender or the Agent under this Agreement would be subject to United States federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender or the Agent, as the case may be, were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA
(including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender or the Agent, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Borrower at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower as may be necessary for the Borrower to comply with its obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender or the Agent has complied with its obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
 
SECTION 2.14.  .  If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Advances or other obligations hereunder resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of its Advances and accrued interest thereon or other such obligations greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Advances and such other obligations of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Advances and other amounts owing them; that:
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
 
(i)
                                  
if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
 
(ii)
                               
the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Advances to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply).
 
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
SECTION 2.15.  .  (a)  Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
 
(b)
                              
The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to
each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(c)
                              
Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.16.  .  The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
 
SECTION 2.17.  .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
(a)
                              
Designation of a Different Applicable Lending Office
.  If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.10, or requires the Borrower to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.13, then such Lender shall (at the request of the Borrower) use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.10 or 2.13 as the case may be, in the future, and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.  The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
 
(b)
                              
Replacement of Lenders
.  If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.10, or if the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.13 and, in each case, such Lender has declined or is unable to designate a different Applicable Lending Office in accordance with Section 2.17(a), or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender or a Non-Approving Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort and so long as no Default is continuing, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 8.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
provided
 
(i)
                                  
the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 8.07;
 
(ii)
                               
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts under Section 8.04(e)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
 
(iii)
                            
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.10 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.13, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
 
(iv)
                           
such assignment does not conflict with applicable law; and
 
(v)
                              
in the case of any assignment resulting from a Lender becoming a Non-Approving Lender, the applicable assignee shall have consented to the applicable amendment, waiver or consent.
 
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
SECTION 2.18.  .  (a)  If a Lender becomes, and during the period it remains, a Defaulting Lender, any amount paid by the Borrower or otherwise received by the Agent for the account of a Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity payments or other amounts) will not be paid or distributed to such Defaulting Lender, but will instead be retained by the Agent in a segregated non-interest bearing account until (subject to Section 2.18(c)) the termination of the Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder and will be applied by the Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to the making of payments from time to time in the following order of priority:  to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent under this Agreement, to the payment of post-default interest and then current interest due and payable to the Lenders hereunder other than Defaulting Lenders, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such interest then due and payable to them, to the payment of fees then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder, ratably among them in accordance with the amounts of such fees then due and payable to them, to pay principal then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders hereunder ratably in accordance with the amounts thereof then due and payable to them, to the ratable payment of other amounts then due and payable to the Non-Defaulting Lenders, and after the termination of the Commitments and payment in full of all obligations of the Borrower hereunder, to pay amounts owing under this Agreement to such Defaulting Lender or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this Section 2.18 shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
Defaulting Lenders
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
 
(b)
                              
No Commitment of any Lender shall be increased or otherwise affected, and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 2.18, performance by the Borrower of its obligations shall not be excused or otherwise modified as a result of the operation of this Section 2.18.  The rights and remedies against a Defaulting Lender under this Section 2.18 are in addition to any other rights and remedies which the Borrower, the Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
 
(c)
                              
If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing in their reasonable determination that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein, that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances to be funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Commitments, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of
provided
the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from such Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
further
 
SECTION 2.19.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar year prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the Termination Date (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $1,250,000,000.
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
Request for Increase
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
 
(b)
                              
Lender Election to Increase
.  The Agent shall promptly notify such Lenders and Eligible Assignees as are designated by the Borrower of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which such Lenders and Eligible Assignees wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the "").  Each such Lender and Eligible Assignee that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment or to establish its Commitment, as the case may be.  If such Lenders and Eligible Assignees notify the Agent that they are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase with Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceed the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among such Lenders and Eligible Assignees in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
 
(c)
                              
Notification by Agent
.  Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which such Lenders and Eligible Assignees are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
provided
however
 
(d)
                              
Assuming Lenders
.  On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.19(b) (each such Eligible Assignee, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.19(b)) as of such Increase Date.
Assuming Lender
 
(e)
                              
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Commitment Increase pursuant to this Section shall not be effective with respect to any Lender unless (i) the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
 
(A)
                          
(1) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board authorizing the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (2) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent;
 
 
(B)
                           
an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Assuming Lender, the Agent and the Borrower; and
Assumption Agreement
 
(C)
                           
confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent; and
 
(ii) on the date of request for a Commitment Increase and on the applicable Increase Date the following statements shall be true (and the giving of the request for Commitment Increase shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such request and on such Increase Date such statements are true):
 
(A)  no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date and after giving effect to such Commitment Increase; and
 
(B)  the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of such date of such Commitment Increase and after giving effect to such Commitment Increase, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date).
 
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.19(e), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date.  Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, to the extent applicable, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances to be held pro rata by the Lenders in accordance with the Commitments.
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01.  .  Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
 
(a)
                              
There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since December 31, 2010.
 
(b)
                              
The Borrower shall have notified the Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
(c)
                              
The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses then due and payable of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses then due and payable of counsel to the Agent).
 
(d)
                              
On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
 
 
(i)
                                  
The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
 
(ii)
                               
No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
(e)
                              
The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender:
 
(i)
                                  
The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.15.
 
(ii)
                               
Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
 
(iii)
                            
A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
 
(iv)
                           
A favorable opinion of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel for the Borrower, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(v)
                              
A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
SECTION 3.02.  .  The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Borrowing (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing
 
(i)
                                  
the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct in all material respects (other than representations and warranties that are qualified by materiality, which shall be correct) on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date), and
 
(ii)
                               
no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default;
 
and (b) the Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
 
SECTION 3.03.  .  For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01.  .  The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a)
                              
The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
(b)
                              
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
 
(c)
                              
No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or, other than as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, any other third party, is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
 
(d)
                              
This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower.  This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except to the extent such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally and by equitable principles.
 
(e)
                              
The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of KPMG LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at June 30, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the six months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower (, that it is acknowledged and agreed that the certification attached as Exhibit 31.2 to the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for such period filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall satisfy this certification requirement), copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at June 30, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the six months then ended, to the absence of footnotes and year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently
provided
 
 
applied.  Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change other than as disclosed in any periodic report filed prior to the date hereof by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(f)
                                
There is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(g)
                              
The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock.
 
(h)
                              
The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(i)
                                  
No information, exhibit or report furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation and syndication of this Agreement (including in connection with the preparation of the Information Memorandum) or pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made therein, taken as a whole, not misleading in light of the circumstances in which such statements were made.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
 
(a)
                              
Compliance with Laws, Etc
.  Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA, Environmental Laws and the Patriot Act , except in such instances in which the failure to comply therewith, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b)
                              
Payment of Taxes, Etc
.  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all Taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors.
provided
however
 
 
(c)
                              
Maintenance of Insurance
.  Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates.
 
(d)
                              
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
.  Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger, consolidation, sale, transfer or other transaction permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the Board of Directors of the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower, such Subsidiary or the Lenders.
provided
however
provided
further
 
(e)
                              
Visitation Rights
.  At any reasonable time and from time to time, during business hours and upon reasonable prior written notice, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, not more than once per fiscal year at the expense of the Borrower unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants.
 
(f)
                                
Keeping of Books
.  Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
 
(g)
                              
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
.  Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
 
(h)
                              
Transactions with Affiliates
.  Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
 
(i)
                                  
Reporting Requirements
.  Furnish to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders:
 
(i)
                                  
as soon as available and in any event within 5 days after the date on which the Borrower is required to file the quarterly report of the Borrower on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (after giving effect to any extension (not to exceed 10 Business Days) of such due date that is obtained by the Borrower) or, if the Borrower ceases to be subject to such filing requirements, within 5 days after the date on which such reports would have been due had the Borrower remained subject to such requirements, for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending
 
with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to the absence of footnotes and year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (, that it is acknowledged and agreed that the certification of the chief financial officer of the Borrower attached to the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q shall satisfy this certification requirement) and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03;
provided
 
(ii)
                               
as soon as available and in any event within 5 days after the date on which the Borrower is required to file the annual report of the Borrower on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (after giving effect to any extension (not to exceed 15 Business Days) of such due date that is obtained by the Borrower) or, if the Borrower ceases to be subject to such filing requirements, within 5 days after the date on which such reports would have been due had the Borrower remained subject to such requirements, for each fiscal year, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion acceptable to the Required Lenders by KPMG LLP or other independent public accountants acceptable to the Required Lenders and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03;
 
(iii)
                            
as soon as possible and in any event within five Business Days after becoming aware of the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv)
                           
promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports and registration statements that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
 
(v)
                              
promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f) and not otherwise disclosed in any periodic report filed by the Borrower with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
 
(vi)
                           
such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i)(i), (ii) or (iv) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed in Section 8.02; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Agent have access (whether a commercial,
 
third-party website or whether sponsored by the Agent); that the Borrower shall notify the Agent (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents or any such link.  The Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
provided
 
SECTION 5.02.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
 
(a)
                              
Liens, Etc
.  Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
 
(i)
                                  
Permitted Liens,
 
(ii)
                               
purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired, and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced,
provided
however
 
(iii)
                            
the Liens existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
 
(iv)
                           
Liens on property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary,
provided
 
(v)
                              
other Liens securing Debt in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole ,
 
(vi)
                           
Liens arising from judgments, decrees or attachments and Liens securing appeal bonds arising from judgments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000;
 
 
(vii)
                        
Liens and assignments of the right to receive income in respect of securitizations of accounts receivable in an Invested Amount not to exceed $175,000,000 at any time outstanding; and
 
(viii)
                     
the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii) or (iv) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Debt secured thereby.
 
(b)
                              
Mergers, Etc
.  Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower, and except that any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into or dispose of assets to the Borrower and the Borrower may merge with any other Person so long as the Borrower is the surviving corporation, , in each case, that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.
provided
 
(c)
                              
Subsidiary Debt
.  Permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Debt other than:
 
(i)
                                  
Debt owed to the Borrower or to a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower,
 
(ii)         Debt existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(c) hereto (the ""), and any Debt extending the maturity of, or refunding or refinancing, in whole or in part, the Existing Debt, that the principal amount of such Existing Debt shall not be increased above the principal amount thereof outstanding immediately prior to such extension, refunding or refinancing, and the direct and contingent obligors therefor shall not be changed, as a result of or in connection with such extension, refunding or refinancing,
Existing Debt
provided
 
(iii)
                            
Debt incurred by any Subsidiary in respect of securitizations of accounts receivable in an Invested Amount not to exceed $175,000,000 at any time outstanding,
 
(iv)
                           
Debt in an aggregate principal amount that, when aggregated (without duplication) with Debt permitted to be secured by Liens in accordance with Section 5.02(a)(v), does not exceed at any time outstanding an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Tangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, and
 
(v)
                              
indorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business.
 
(d)
                              
Change in Nature of Business
.  Make, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make, any material change in the nature of its business as carried on at the date hereof.
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Financial Covenants
 
 
(a)
                              
Debt to EBITDA Ratio
.  Maintain, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated Debt as of such date to Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of not greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
 
(b)
                              
Interest Coverage Ratio
.  Maintain, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, all Debt, in each case for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, of not less than 3.5 to 1.0.
 
 
SECTION 6.01.  .  If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a)
                              
The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
 
(b)
                              
Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
 
(c)
                              
(i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e) or (i), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or
 
(d)
                              
The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or net amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(e)
                              
The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or
 
composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
 
(f)
                                
Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if, for so long as and to the extent that (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
provided
however
 
(g)
                              
(i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason (other than due to death, retirement or disability) to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower (except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by 66-2/3% of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower); or
 
(i)
                                  
The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur, or, in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders, shall be reasonably likely to incur liability in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following:  (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization, insolvency or termination of a Multiemployer Plan or a determination has been made that a Multiemployer Plan is in "endangered" or "critical" status within the meaning of Section 432 of the Code or Section 305 of ERISA;
 
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without
 
presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01.  .  Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Citibank to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the Notes and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third-party beneficiary of any of such provisions.  It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any Note (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Appointment and Authority
 
SECTION 7.02.  .  The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
 
SECTION 7.03.  .  (a) The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein, and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
 
(i)
                                  
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
(ii)
                               
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein); that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any Debtor Relief Law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any Debtor Relief Law; and
provided
 
(iii)
                            
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower
 
or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
(b)
                              
The Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 and 6.01), or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment.  The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent in writing by the Borrower or a Lender.
 
(c)
                              
The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
 
SECTION 7.04.  .  The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance.  The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Agent
 
SECTION 7.05.  .  The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Agent.  The Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub-agent.  The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and non appealable judgment that the Agent acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub-agents.
Delegation of Duties
 
SECTION 7.06.  .  (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent
Resignation of Agent
Resignation Effective Date
 
meeting the qualifications set forth above.  Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
 
(b)
                              
If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (v) of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Borrower and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, in consultation with the Borrower, appoint a successor.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
 
(c)
                              
With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (1) the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent, and the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder.  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Agent was acting as Agent.
 
SECTION 7.07.  .  Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder:
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders
 
SECTION 7.08.  .  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Documentation Agents, if any, listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Agent or a Lender hereunder.
No Other Duties, etc
 
 
SECTION 8.01.  . 
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that (a) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following:  (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (ii) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder or
provided
however
 
(iii) amend this Section 8.01 and (b) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Lender directly affected thereby, do any of the following:  (i) increase or extend the Commitments of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or (iii) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder; and that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note.
provided
further
 
SECTION 8.02.  .  (a) .  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
Notices Generally
 
(i)
                                  
if to the Borrower, to it at 300 Connell Drive, Berkeley Heights, New Jersey 07922, Attention of Patrick Moletteri, Assistant Treasurer (Facsimile No. 908-219-0478; Telephone No. 908-219-0459);
 
(ii)
                               
if to the Agent, to Citibank at 1615 Brett Road, Building #3, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention of Bank Loan Syndications (Facsimile No. 212-994-0961; Telephone No. 203-894-6070);
 
(iii)
                            
if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient).  Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
 
(b)
                              
Electronic Communications
.  Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to Article II if such Lender has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  The Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
 
Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or
provided
 
 
communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient.
 
(c)        .  Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
 
(d)        .
Platform
 
(i)         The Borrower agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
 
(ii)        The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available."  The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the Communications.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform.  In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Agent's transmission of communications through the Platform.  "" means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material that the Borrower provides to the Agent pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated herein which is distributed to the Agent any Lender by means of electronic communications pursuant to this Section, including through the Platform.
Agent Parties
Communications
 
SECTION 8.03.  .  No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall not operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
SECTION 8.04.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agent), the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement, or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agent, any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agent, any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Advances made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Advances.
Costs and Expenses
Costs and Expenses
 
(b)        .  The Borrower shall indemnify the Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable and documented fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any Person (including the Borrower) other than such Indemnitee and its Related Parties arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any Advance or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Action related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
provided
 
(c)        .  To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), or any Related Party of the Agent (and without limiting its obligation to do so), each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's pro rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought based on each Lender's ratable share of the Commitments at such time) of such unpaid amount (including any such unpaid amount in respect of a claim asserted by such Lender); , that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of the Agent acting for the Agent (or any such sub-agent), in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this paragraph (c) are subject to the provisions of Section 2.02(e).
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
(d)          To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no party to this Agreement shall assert, and each party to this Agreement hereby waives, any claim against any other party to this Agreement, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Advance, or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in paragraph (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
 
(e)        .  The Borrower shall promptly compensate each Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of (i) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Advance other than a Base Rate Advance on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise), (ii) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make an Advance) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Advance other than a Base Rate Advance on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower or (iii) any assignment of a Eurodollar
Funding Losses
Rate Advance on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18 (
excluding any loss of anticipated profits, but including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Advance or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained).  The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by any Lender in connection with the foregoing.  For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this Section 8.04(e), each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Advance made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Advance by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Advance was in fact so funded.
 
(f)        .  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after demand therefor.
Payments
 
(g)        .   Each party's obligations under this Section shall survive the termination of the Credit Agreement and payment of the obligations hereunder.
Survival
 
SECTION 8.05.  .  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held, and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing, by such Lender or any such Affiliate, to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any Note to such Lender or its Affiliates, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or Affiliate shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any Note and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch, office or Affiliate of such Lender different from the branch, office or Affiliate holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.18 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff.  The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have.  Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Agent promptly after any such setoff and application; that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Right of Set-off
provided
provided
 
SECTION 8.06.  .  (a)      .  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  Except as provided in Section 3.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Agent and when the Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or in electronic (i.e., "pdf" or "tif") format shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Binding Effect
Counterparts; Effectiveness
 
(b)        .  The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based
Electronic Execution of Assignments
recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
 
SECTION 8.07.  .  (a)  .  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Agent and each Lender, and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
(b)        .  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
 
(i)         .
Minimum Amounts
 
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it or contemporaneous assignments to related Approved Funds that equal at least the amount specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section in the aggregate or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
 
(B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if "" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $10,000,000, unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Trade Date
 
(ii)
          
Proportionate Amounts
.  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advances or the Commitment assigned.
 
(iii)
         
Required Consents
.  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Defaulthas occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment, or (y) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within five Business Days after having received notice thereof; and
provided
 
(B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments in respect of any Commitments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
 
(iv)       .  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
.
 
(v)        .  No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B).
No Assignment to Certain Persons
 
(vi)       .  No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
 
(vii)      .  In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances in accordance with its Commitment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.10
and 8.04with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
provided
 
(c)        .  The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
 
(d)        .  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and (iii) the Borrower, the Agent and Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.  For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 8.04(c) with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
Participations
Participant
provided
 
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clause (b) of the first proviso of Section 8.01 that affects such Participant.  The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.10 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such Participant agrees to be subject to the provisions of Section 2.17 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 8.05as though it were a Lender; that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.14 as though it were a Lender.
provided
provided
provided
 
Each Lender that sells a participation, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participation Register to any Person (including the identity of any participant or any information relating to a participant's interest in any commitments, loans, letters of credit or its other obligations under any Loan Document) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan, letter of credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103(e) of the United States Treasury Regulations.  The entries in the Participation Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is
Participation Register
provided
recorded in the Participation Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
 
(e)  .  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.10 and 2.13than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.13unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.13(e) as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
 
(f)        .  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
SECTION 8.08.  .  Each of the Agent and the Lenders agree to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its Related Parties (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential); (b) to the extent required or requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over such Person or its Related Parties (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners); (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process; (d) to any other party hereto; (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder; (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its Related Parties) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder; (g) on a confidential basis to (i) any rating agency in connection with rating the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (ii) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers with respect to this Agreement; (h) with the consent of the Borrower; or (i) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section, or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
Confidentiality
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
 
SECTION 8.09.  .  This Agreement and the Notes and any claims, controversy, dispute or cause of action (whether in contract or tort or otherwise) based upon, arising out
Governing Law
 
of or relating to this Agreement or any Note and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
 
SECTION 8.10.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 8.11.  .  (a)  The Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against the Agent, any Lender or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court.  Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action, litigation or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.  Nothing in this Agreement or in any Note shall affect any right that the Agent or any Lender or may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction, Etc
 
(b)        .  The Borrower irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Note in any court referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waiver of Venue
 
(c)        .  Each party hereto irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 8.02.  Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by applicable law.
Service of Process
 
SECTION 8.12.  .  Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.  The Borrower shall provide, to the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
 
SECTION 8.13.  .  The Borrower acknowledges that the Lenders have no fiduciary relationship with, or fiduciary duty to, the Borrower arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, and the relationship between each Lender and the Borrower is solely that of creditor and debtor.  This Agreement does not create a joint venture among the parties hereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
 
SECTION 8.14.  .  Each party hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in any legal proceeding directly or indirectly arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions contemplated hereby (whether based on contract, tort or any other theory).  Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other Person has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other Person would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and the other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this section.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A - FORM OF
PROMISSORY NOTE
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Celgene Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the unpaid principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of September , 2011 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A. as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on the Termination Date.
Borrower
                    
Lender
    
Credit Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
 
Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to Citibank, as Agent, at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds.  Each Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
 
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B - FORM OF NOTICE OF
BORROWING
Citibank, N.A., as Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
1615 Brett Road, Building #3
New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Date]
 
Attention: Bank Loan Syndications Department
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Celgene Corporation, refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September , 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto and  Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
    
Credit Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
 
(i)         The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is , 201_.
                    
 
(ii)        The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurodollar Rate Advances].
 
(iii)       The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is $.
                    
 
[(iv)      The initial Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is month[s].]
          
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
 
(A)       the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date); and
 
 
(B)       no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
 
 
CUSIP Number:
                                         
EXHIBIT C - FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
11
 Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each]
Assignor
12
 Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] "").  [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
Assignee
13
 hereunder are several and not joint.]
14
  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee.  The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
 
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] "").  Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
1.
                                    
Assignor[s]:                     
                                                                
 
 
11
 For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignor(s), if the assignment is from a single Assignor, choose the first bracketed language.  If the assignment is from multiple Assignors, choose the second bracketed language.
 
12
 For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignee(s), if the assignment is to a single Assignee, choose the first bracketed language.  If the assignment is to multiple Assignees, choose the second bracketed language.
 
13
 Select as appropriate.
 
14
 Include bracketed language if there are either multiple Assignors or multiple Assignees.
 
 
[7.       Trade Date:                           ]
                              
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 List each Assignor, as appropriate.
 
16
 List each Assignee, as appropriate.
 
18
 Amount to be adjusted by the counterparties to take into account any payments or prepayments made between the Trade Date and the Effective Date.
 
19
 Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of all Lenders thereunder.
 
20
 To be completed if the Assignor(s) and the Assignee(s) intend that the minimum assignment amount is to be determined as of the Trade Date.
 
Effective Date:   , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                          
      
    
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
21
 Add additional signature blocks as needed. Include both Fund/Pension Plan and manager making the trade (if applicable).
 
22
 Add additional signature blocks as needed. Include both Fund/Pension Plan and manager making the trade (if applicable).
 
23
 To be added only if the consent of the Agent is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
24
 To be added only if the consent of the Borrower and/or other parties (e.g. Swingline Lender, Issuing Bank) is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
ANNEX 1
1.
              
Representations and Warranties.
 
1.1
         
Assignor[s].  [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
1.2.
        
Assignee[s].  [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section (b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section (b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section  thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
    
    
      
 
2.
           
Payments.  From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other
 
amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date.  The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Agent shall make all payments of interest, fees or other amounts paid or payable in kind from and after the Effective Date to [the][the relevant] Assignee.
 
3.
           
General Provisions.  This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption.  This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
 


