FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20110217160627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On February 16, 2011, Celgene Corporation (the "Company") announced the election of Michael A. Friedman, MD, to its Board of Directors. Dr. Friedman is an experienced healthcare leader with a distinguished career in oncology research, regulatory strategy and public healthcare policy. He currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of City of Hope, a leading cancer research, treatment and education institution, as well as director of the organization's Comprehensive Cancer Center and holder of the Irell & Manella Cancer Center Director's Distinguished Chair. Before leading City of Hope, Dr. Friedman was senior vice president of research and development, medical and public policy for Pharmacia Corporation and Chief Medical Officer for biomedical preparedness at the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). Additionally, Dr. Friedman previously served as deputy commissioner for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), later serving as acting commissioner, and as Associate Director of the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.
As a member of the Company's Board of Directors, Dr. Friedman will receive an annual fee of $75,000. In addition, under the Company's 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, on February 16, 2011, the Company granted to Dr. Friedman a non-qualified option to purchase 25,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The option will vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is the Press Release announcing the election.
On February 16, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of the Company's common stock through December 2012. This authorization is in addition to the $500.0 million authorization announced on January 10, 2011. The $500.0 million program announced in April 2009 has been fully utilized.
Attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is the Press Release announcing the authorization.
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated February 16, 2011 announcing the election of Michael A. Friedman, MD, to the Company's Board of Directors.
Exhibit 99.2  Press Release dated February 16, 2011 announcing authorization of up to an additional $1.0 billion for share repurchase.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced the election of Michael A. Friedman, MD, to its Board of Directors. Dr. Friedman is an experienced healthcare leader with a distinguished career in oncology research, regulatory strategy and public healthcare policy. He currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of City of Hope, a leading cancer research, treatment and education institution, as well as director of the organization's Comprehensive Cancer Center and holder of the Irell & Manella Cancer Center Director's Distinguished Chair. Before leading City of Hope, Dr. Friedman was senior vice president of research and development, medical and public policy for Pharmacia Corporation and Chief Medical Officer for biomedical preparedness at the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). Additionally, Dr. Friedman previously served as deputy commissioner for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), later serving as acting commissioner, and as Associate Director of the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.
SUMMIT, NJ  (February 16, 2011) 
Since 2004, Dr. Friedman has served on the Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee, created by California State Proposition 71 to govern the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine and oversee implementation of California's stem cell research effort.
"In this time of increased focus on delivering therapeutic value within an evolving healthcare system, someone as experienced in both medical research and public policy continues to strengthen the capability of our Board of Directors," said Robert J. Hugin, Celgene Chief Executive Officer. "Dr. Friedman's guidance will be of tremendous value as we continue to deliver innovative therapies to patients with cancer and other serious diseases around the world."
Dr. Friedman has received numerous commendations, including the Surgeon General's Medallion in 1999. He holds a doctorate in medicine from the University of Texas and received his bachelor's degree from Tulane University. He completed postdoctoral training at Stanford University and the National Cancer Institute and is certified in internal medicine and medical oncology.
 
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the company's Web site at www.celgene.com.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Company's control. The Company's actual results, performance, or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as the Company's
Form 10-K
, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.

Exhibit 99.2
Contact:
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced that the company's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1 billion of the Company's common stock through December 2012. This authorization is in addition to the $500 million authorization announced on January 10, 2011. The $500 million program announced in April of 2009 has been fully utilized.
SUMMIT, NJ  (February 16, 2011) 
Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, as determined by Celgene's management and in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. As of December 31, 2010, Celgene had 470,388,164 shares of common stock outstanding.
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the company's Web site at www.celgene.com.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which involve known and unknown risks, delays, uncertainties and other factors not under the Company's control. The Company's actual results, performance, or achievements could be materially different from those projected by these forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ from the forward-looking statements are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as the Company's
Form 10-K
, 10-Q and 8-K reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.


