FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20121109170833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 9, 2012, Celgene International Srl, a subsidiary of Celgene Corporation, issued a press release relating to updates on clinical studies involving Abraxane. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, that is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed to be "filed."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contacts:
For Celgene International Srl
Investors:
+41 32 729 8303
ir@celgene.com
Media:
+41 32 729 8304
media@celgene.com
BOUDRY, Switzerland  (November 9, 2012)  Celgene International Srl, a subsidiary of Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced that its phase III study of ABRAXANE (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension) (albumin-bound) in combination with gemcitabine in treatment-nave patients with advanced pancreatic cancer met its primary endpoint of overall survival. In the study, ABRAXANE in combination with gemcitabine demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in overall survival compared to patients receiving gemcitabine alone.
In the MPACT (Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Clinical Trial) study, a Celgene-sponsored, open-label, randomized, international study 861 metastatic pancreatic cancer patients were randomized to receive either ABRAXANE plus gemcitabine (125 mg/m
2
followed by 1000 mg/m
2
gemcitabine for 3 weeks followed by a week of rest) or gemcitabine alone (1000 mg/m
2
administered weekly for 7 weeks followed by a week of rest followed by cycles of weekly administration for 3 weeks followed by one week of rest).
The primary endpoint for the study is improvement in overall survival. Secondary endpoints include evaluation of progression-free survival, objective tumor response and the safety and tolerability of this combination in this patient population.
The safety profile of ABRAXANE in combination with gemcitabine observed in the study is comparable with other ABRAXANE clinical trials in pancreatic cancer. A late-breaker placeholder abstract for this study has been submitted to the American Society of Clinical Oncology's (ASCO) 2013 Gastrointestinal Cancers Symposium being held in San Francisco on January 24-26, 2013.
Based on the results of the MPACT study, the company plans to submit dossiers for registration in the US, Europe and other markets. These results are from an investigational phase III study. ABRAXANE is not currently approved for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer.
About Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Advanced pancreatic cancer is a difficult-to-treat cancer with the lowest survival rates among all cancer types. Across all patients with pancreatic cancer, relative 5-year survival is 5.5%. There are two main types of pancreatic cancer - adenocarcinomas, which accounts for approximately 95% of all pancreatic cancer, and neuroendocrine tumors. Pancreatic cancer is relatively uncommon with new cases accounting for only 2.1% of all newly diagnosed cancers. However, pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in the United States and throughout the world.
About ABRAXANE
ABRAXANE is an albumin-bound form of paclitaxel that is manufactured using patented technology. ABRAXANE is formulated with albumin, a human protein, and is free of solvents.
nab
In the United States, ABRAXANE was first approved in January 2005 for the treatment of breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline unless clinically contraindicated. ABRAXANE is also available in Europe, Canada, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, South Korea, Bhutan, Nepal, United Arab Emirates and China for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
In October 2012, ABRAXANE was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in combination with carboplatin, in patients who are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation therapy.
For the full prescribing information for ABRAXANE please visit .
http://www.abraxane.com
ABRAXANE is currently in various stages of investigation for the treatment of the following cancers: pancreatic, metastatic melanoma, bladder, ovarian, and expanded applications for breast cancer.
ABRAXANE for Injectable Suspension (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension) (albumin bound) is indicated for the treatment of breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline unless clinically contraindicated.
ABRAXANE is indicated for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in combination with carboplatin, in patients who are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation therapy.
Important Safety Information
 
 
CONTRAINDICATIONS
Neutrophil Counts
 
Hypersensitivity
 
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
Hematologic Effects
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous System
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity
 
 
Hepatic Impairment
 
 
Albumin (Human)
 
Use in Pregnancy: Pregnancy Category D
 
 
 
Use in Men
 
ADVERSE REACTIONS
Randomized Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) Study
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Small Cell Lung (NSCLC) Cancer Study
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-Marketing Experience with ABRAXANE and other Paclitaxel Formulations
 
 
 
DRUG INTERACTIONS
 
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
Nursing Mothers
 
Pediatric
 
Geriatric
 
 
Renal Impairment
 
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
 
 
 
 
Please see full Prescribing Information, including Boxed WARNING, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, and ADVERSE REACTIONS.
About Celgene International Srl
Celgene International Srl, located in Boudry, in the Canton of Neuchtel, Switzerland, is a wholly owned subsidiary and international headquarters of Celgene Corporation. Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global pharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.celgene.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


