FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20120806091027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 6, 2012, Celgene Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), issued a press release announcing the commencement of its public offering of senior unsecured notes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
today announced its intention to offer, subject to market and other conditions, senior unsecured notes under a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The interest rate, the maturity dates and other key terms of the offering are to be determined at the time of pricing.
SUMMIT, NJ  (August 6, 2012)  Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG)
Celgene expects to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include, without limitation, further development of Celgene's clinical and pre-clinical programs, capital expenditures, general corporate development activities and meeting working capital needs.
BofA Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley are acting as joint book-running managers. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus, which is filed as part of Celgene's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-169731), may be obtained from any of the joint book-running managers by calling BofA Merrill Lynch toll-free at: 1-800-294-1322, J.P. Morgan collect at 1-212-834-4533 or Morgan Stanley toll-free at 1-866-718-1649.
An electronic copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may also be obtained at no charge at the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at .
www.sec.gov
The notes are being offered pursuant to an effective registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-169731) that Celgene previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the notes described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the laws of such jurisdiction. The offering of the notes will be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus.
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


