FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20120614174502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the annual meeting of stockholders (the "") of Celgene Corporation (the "") held on June 13, 2012, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment (the "") to the Company's 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the "") to, among other things:
Annual Meeting
Company
Amendment
Plan
 
 
 
In addition to the foregoing, our stockholders reapproved the Section 162(m) performance goals under the Plan so that certain incentive awards granted under the Plan to executive officers of the Company may qualify as exempt performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The foregoing is a brief summary of the principal provisions of the amendments to the Plan and does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, as amended by the Amendment, which Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) The annual meeting of stockholders of the Company was held on June 13, 2012.
(b) Stockholders voted on the matters set forth below:
Proposal 1. Election of Directors:
 
Proposal 2. Ratification of Appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2012:
 
 
Proposal 3. Amendment to the Company's 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the description of the amendment contained in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference):
 
Proposal 4. Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation:
 
Proposal 5. Advisory Vote on Stockholder Proposal (described in more detail in the Proxy Statement):
 
(c) Not applicable.
(d) Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Celgene Corporation (the "") maintains the Celgene Corporation 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of June 17, 2009) (the "");
WHEREAS,
Company
Plan
pursuant to Article 14 of the Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") may at any time, and from time to time, amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, subject to stockholder approval in certain instances; and
WHEREAS,
Board
the Board desires to amend the Plan, effective on the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders occurring in 2012 (the ""), subject to stockholder approval at the 2012 Annual Meeting.
WHEREAS,
2012 Annual Meeting
the Board takes the following action with regard to the Plan:
NOW, THEREFORE,
I. Pursuant to Article 14 of the Plan, the Plan is hereby amended, effective on the 2012 Annual Meeting and subject to stockholder approval at the 2012 Annual Meeting, as follows:
1. The first and second sentences of Section 4.1(a) of the Plan are amended in their entirety to read as follows:
"The aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued or used for reference purposes under this Plan or with respect to which all Awards may be granted shall not exceed 95,981,641 shares (subject to any increase or decrease pursuant to Section 4.2). Any shares of Common Stock that are subject to Restricted Stock Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards or Performance-Based Awards denominated in shares of Common Stock granted on or after the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders occurring in 2012, shall be counted against this limit as 2.1 shares for every share granted."
2. The fourth sentence of Section 4.1(a) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"If a share of Restricted Stock or an Other Stock-Based Award or a Performance-Based Award denominated in shares of Common Stock granted under this Plan is forfeited for any reason on or after the date of the Company's annual meeting of stockholders occurring in 2012, 2.1 shares of Common Stock shall again be available for the purposes of Awards under the Plan."
3. Article 18 of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
No Award shall be granted pursuant to the Plan on or after April 18, 2022, but Awards granted prior to such date may, and the Committee's authority to administer the terms of such Awards shall, extend beyond that date; provided, however, that no Award (other than a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right) that is intended to be "performance-based" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be granted on or after the first meeting of the stockholders in the fifth year following the year in which the stockholders approve the Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A unless the Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A are reapproved (or other designated performance goals are approved) by the stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which stockholders approve the Performance Goals set forth on Exhibit A."
II. Except as specifically amended hereby, the Plan is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and remains in full force and effect.


