FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20120613174333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 13, 2012, Celgene Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the authorization of the repurchase of up to an additional $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock. Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, as determined by Celgene's management and in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, that is furnished pursuant to this Item 8.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated June 13, 2012.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 8.01 and shall not be deemed to be "filed."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced that during its June meeting the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock. This open-ended program is effective immediately. Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, as determined by Celgene's management and in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SUMMIT, NJ  (June 13, 2012) 
About Celgene
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the company's Web site at www.celgene.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


