FILE:CELG/CELG-8K-20120126085055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
              
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On January 26, 2012, Celgene Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2011.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, that is furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
ITEM 8.01
              
OTHER EVENTS
 
On January 26, 2012, Celgene Corporation (Celgene) and Avila Therapeutics, Inc. (Avila), a privately held biotechnology company, announced a definitive merger agreement under which Celgene Corporation will acquire Avila Therapeutics, Inc.
 
The transaction has been approved by the Board of Directors of both companies and is subject to customary closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. The acquisition of Avila, which Celgene expects to be completed in the first quarter of 2012, will be accounted for as a purchase transaction.
 
A copy of the joint press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SUMMIT, NJ  (January 26, 2012) 
Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) reported Non-GAAP net product sales of $1,241 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a 21 percent increase from the same period in 2010.  Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 increased 38 percent to $473  million compared to $343 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.  For the same periods, Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 46 percent to $1.05 from $0.72.
 
Full year Non-GAAP net product sales for 2011 were $4,673 million.  Full year Non-GAAP net income for 2011 was $1,753 million or Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.79.
 
Based on U.S. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles), Celgene reported fourth quarter 2011 net product sales of $1,243 million and net income of $410 million or $0.91 per diluted share.  For the fourth quarter of 2010, net product sales were $1,040 million and net income was $210 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
 
Full year GAAP net product sales were $4,700 million.  Full year GAAP net income for 2011 was $1,318 million or GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.85.
 
"Our 2011 record financial and operational results reflect the strength of our operating momentum worldwide in a dynamic and challenging economic environment," said Bob Hugin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Celgene Corporation.  "The accomplishments of 2011 have strategically positioned us to capitalize on multiple transformational milestones for Celgene in 2012."
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Financial Highlights
 
Unless otherwise stated, all comparisons are for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 compared to the fourth quarter and full year of 2010.  The non-GAAP operating expenses presented below exclude share-based employee compensation expense, non-core operations acquired from Abraxis, IPR&D impairments, upfront payments for R&D collaborations and a Canadian pricing settlement.
 
Net Product Sales Performance
 
                 
REVLIMID
 sales for the fourth quarter increased 20 percent to $855 million and were driven by strong overall market share, increased duration of therapy and geographic expansion.  Fourth quarter U.S. sales of $488 million and international sales of $367 million increased 21 percent and 20 percent, respectively.  Full year REVLIMID sales were $3,208 million, an increase of 30 percent.
                 
ABRAXANE
 sales for the fourth quarter were $104 million. U.S. sales were $92 million and international sales were $12 million.  U.S. sales decreased approximately 1.9 percent from the third quarter, largely due to the resolution of the generic paclitaxel shortage.  Sales outside the U.S. were impacted by the timing of orders from our distributors and partners.  In addition, some international sales were negatively impacted by quality issues with contract manufacturers.
                 
VIDAZA
fourth quarter sales increased 34 percent to $189 million.  U.S. sales increased 19 percent to $86 million.  International sales increased 51 percent to $104 million, driven by recent launches in multiple markets, including the United Kingdom and Japan.
                 
THALOMID
 sales were $82 million in the fourth quarter, representing a 12 percent decrease; for 2011 sales were $339 million, a decrease of 13 percent.
 
Research and Development (R&D)
 
Non-GAAP R&D expenses were $349 million for the fourth quarter compared to $298 million for the fourth quarter 2010.  The fourth quarter 2011 included R&D expense associated with Abraxis activities, which were acquired in October 2010.  The Company is conducting over 25 late-stage trials evaluating new products or new indications for existing products and several of those trials achieved peak enrollment in the fourth quarter.  Additionally, a $20 million payment was made to Agios to extend our existing collaboration by one year to 2014.
 
For the full year of 2011, non-GAAP R&D expenses were $1,240 million compared to $918 million for the full year 2010.  The majority of the increase is attributed to late stage trials completing enrollment during 2011.  Additionally, non-GAAP R&D expenses included the Agios collaboration extension payment, milestone payments of $15 million to Acceleron Pharma and expenses associated with Abraxis activities.
 
On a GAAP basis, R&D expenses were $436 million for the fourth quarter 2011 and $328 million for the same period in 2010; full year R&D expenses were $1,600 million for 2011 compared to $1,128 million for 2010.
 
Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A)
 
Non-GAAP SG&A expenses were $278 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $252 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.  The increase was primarily due to higher marketing and
 
 
sales related expenses resulting from product launches for REVLIMID in Japan, ISTODAX in the U.S., and ABRAXANE in the U.S. and Europe.  Additional expense was also incurred in China in preparation for the filing of REVLIMID and its future launch in China.
 
For the full year 2011, Non-GAAP SG&A was $1,099 million versus $842 million in 2010.  The increase was primarily due to the product launches and preparations noted above, in addition to expenses and integration costs related to the Abraxis business.  Also, higher marketing and sales related expenses were incurred due to participation at an increased number of international medical conferences.
 
On a GAAP basis, SG&A expenses were $315 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $295 million for the same period in 2010; full year SG&A expenses were $1,226 million for 2011 compared to $951 million for 2010.
 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
 
Operations generated cash flow of $1,832 million for 2011, an increase of 55 percent compared to 2010.  Under its authorized stock repurchase program, Celgene purchased approximately 10.2 million shares during the fourth quarter at a total cost of approximately $647 million.  For the full year 2011, Celgene purchased approximately 38.3 million shares at a cost of approximately $2,221 million.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $1,387 million remaining under the existing stock repurchase program.  The Company ended the year with $2,648 million in cash and marketable securities. Celgene ended the year with
approximately 437 million actual shares outstanding and approximately 445 million fully diluted shares outstanding.
 
Product and Pipeline Updates
 
Hematology
 
REVLIMID:  Celgene believes a decision on its marketing application for REVLIMID in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) and maintenance therapy in the EU could be reached by the European Commission during the first half of 2012.  The Company plans to submit marketing applications for NDMM in additional markets, including the U.S., during 2012.
 
The Company filed a marketing application for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma with the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) in China.  A decision is expected by the end of the year. During the first quarter of 2012, the Company plans to submit a marketing application for deletion 5q transfusion dependent low-risk myelodysplastic syndromes with the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
 
Pomalidomide:  The Company presented final phase II data from MM-002 in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma at the American Society of Hematology meeting in December 2011.  Celgene plans to submit a marketing application for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) during the first quarter of 2012.  A marketing application submission with the EMA for the same indication is planned in the first half of 2012.  The phase III MM-003 study is on track and expected to be fully enrolled in the middle of the year.  The Company's phase III trial to support registration in myelofibrosis is expected to be fully accrued in the first quarter of 2012.
 
Oncology
 
ABRAXANE:  Celgene submitted a supplemental new drug application (sNDA) to the FDA for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in December, 2011.  A decision is expected by the end of the year.  The Company is evaluating regulatory strategies to obtain NSCLC approvals in Europe and other international markets.
 
The phase III trial comparing ABRAXANE to dacarbazine in over 510 treatment-nave metastatic malignant melanoma patients is fully enrolled.  Progression-free survival is the primary endpoint, with overall survival as a key secondary endpoint.  Data on the primary efficacy endpoint is expected in the middle of 2012.
 
The phase III trial of over 840-patients with pancreatic cancer comparing ABRAXANE plus gemcitabine to gemcitabine alone is now approximately 90% enrolled with enrollment expected to complete in the first quarter of 2012.  The primary endpoint is overall survival.  Data on the primary efficacy endpoint is expected in early 2013.
 
Inflammation & Immunology
 
Apremilast:  Enrollment of approximately 2,800 patients in five phase III trials (three in psoriatic arthritis and two in psoriasis) is complete.  Data from these pivotal studies are expected beginning in the middle of 2012.  An additional phase III trial in treatment-nave psoriatic arthritis patients is expected to complete enrollment in the first half of 2012.
 
Data from a phase II trial in ankylosing spondylitis was presented at the American College of Rheumatology meeting in November, 2011.  Based upon these results a phase III trial in ankylosing spondylitis is scheduled to start in the first quarter of 2012.  Enrollment in a phase IIb trial for rheumatoid arthritis is complete, with data expected during the first half of 2012.
 
Celgene Forecasts Continued Revenue and Earnings Growth in 2012
 
                 
Non-GAAP Total Revenue expected to increase approximately 15 percent year-over-year to a range of $5,400 to $5,600 million
                 
REVLIMID Net Product Sales anticipated to increase approximately 19 percent year-over-year to a range of $3,750 to $3,850 million
                 
Non-GAAP diluted EPS expected to increase approximately 25 percent year-over-year to a range of $4.70 to $4.80, guidance assumes a constant share count from December 2011 through 2012
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
Celgene will host a conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and full year 2011 operating and financial performance on Thursday, January 26, 2012, at 9:00 a.m. ET.  The conference call will be available by webcast at www.celgene.com. An audio replay of the call will be available from noon January 26, 2012, until midnight ET February 2, 2012.  To access the replay, in the U.S. dial 800-585-8367; international dial 404-537-3406; and Participant Pass code 40618621. The Company's first quarter 2012 financial and operational results are expected to be reported in late April.
 
 
About REVLIMID
 
In the U.S., REVLIMID (lenalidomide) in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) patients who have received at least one prior therapy.  REVLIMID is indicated for patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to Low- or Intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities.
 
About ABRAXANE
 
In the U.S., ABRAXANE for Injectable Suspension (paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension) is indicated for the treatment of breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for
metastatic disease or relapse within six month of adjuvant chemotherapy.  Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline unless clinically contraindicated.
 
About Celgene
 
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the company's Web site at www.celgene.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In addition to financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, this press release also contains non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide investors and management with supplemental information relating to operating performance and trends that facilitate comparisons between periods and with respect to projected information. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We typically exclude certain GAAP items that management does not believe affect our basic operations and that do not meet the GAAP definition of unusual or non-recurring items.
Other companies may define these measures in different ways. See the attached Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP Net Income for explanations of the amounts excluded and included to arrive at non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share amounts for the three-month and twelve-month periods ended
 
 
December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the projected
amounts for the year ending December 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanation of adjustments:
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Contacts:
 
For Celgene:
Investors:
(908) 673-9628 investors@celgene.com
Media:
(908) 673-2275 media@celgene.com
 
SUMMIT, NJ and BEDFORD, MA  (January 26, 2012)  Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) and Avila Therapeutics, Inc., a privately held biotechnology company developing targeted covalent drugs that treat diseases through protein silencing, today announced a definitive merger agreement under which Celgene Corporation will acquire Avila Therapeutics, Inc.
 
The acquisition positions Celgene to expand its leading role in the future treatment of hematologic cancers with Avila's AVL-292, a highly-selective Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) inhibitor, currently in phase I clinical development.  In addition, Avila's proprietary Avilomics Platform augments Celgene's investment in the discovery and development of  novel therapeutics for managing complex disorders.
 
"Avila Therapeutics is a remarkable company that is aligned with our commitment to improve the lives of patients worldwide through innovative science and disease-altering therapies," said Tom Daniel, M.D., President of Research and Early Development for Celgene Corporation. "In particular, we see Avila's unique approach to protein silencing as an area of great promise for our research initiatives in hematology, oncology and immune-inflammatory diseases."
 
"Celgene and Avila are uniquely matched, both strategically and scientifically," said Katrine Bosley, Avila's Chief Executive Officer. "Celgene's global leadership in hematology and emerging franchise in immune-inflammatory diseases will accelerate and expand the clinical development of our Btk inhibitor program. Equally important, we value the high standards of creativity and rigor of Celgene's scientists. We believe working together may accelerate the advancement of more innovative medicines from the Avilomics platform."
 
The transaction has been approved by the Board of Directors of each company and is subject to customary closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Celgene will acquire Avila Therapeutics, Inc. for $350 million in cash, plus
 
up to $195 million for milestones contingent upon the development and regulatory approval of AVL-292, as well as up to $380 million in potential milestone payments contingent upon the development and approval of candidates generated from the Avilomics platform. The acquisition of Avila Therapeutics, Inc. will be accounted for as a purchase transaction that Celgene expects to be completed during the first quarter of 2012. The Company anticipates the acquisition will be neutral to 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings guidance.
 
About Celgene
 
Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through gene and protein regulation. For more information, please visit the company's Web site at www.celgene.com.
 
About Avila Therapeutics, Inc.
 
Avila Therapeutics is a clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on the design and development of targeted covalent drugs to achieve best-in class outcomes. The company's product pipeline has been built using its proprietary Avilomics platform and is currently focused on cancer, viral infection and autoimmune disease. Avila's most advanced product candidate, AVL-292, a potential treatment for cancer and autoimmune diseases, is currently in Phase 1 clinical testing. Avila is funded by leading venture capital firms: Abingworth, Advent Venture Partners, Atlas Venture, Novartis Option Fund, and Polaris Venture Partners. For additional information, please visit http://www.avilatx.com.
 
About AVL-292 and Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (Btk)
 
AVL-292 is a novel, orally available, covalent drug that inhibits Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk). Inhibition of Btk is a promising new approach to treatment of diseases that are driven by B cells, including certain hematologic cancers such as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.
 
AVL-292 selectively and covalently bonds to Btk to inactivate and silence its activity. This mechanism of action confers greater target selectivity and a longer duration of action than is typical of conventional small molecule drugs. In preclinical studies, AVL-292 was efficacious in a variety of animal disease models. AVL-292 is in clinical development and has successfully completed two Phase 1a clinical studies to date.
 
About Targeted Covalent Drugs
 
Targeted covalent drugs are new small-molecule medicines that have the unique opportunity not simply to inhibit disease-causing proteins, but to "silence" them completely. This is because targeted covalent drugs do not merely "bind" to a protein, but they form a durable "bond," which shuts down the protein's activity throughout the life of the protein leading to two primary benefits; precise selectivity and retained efficacy against mutations. Avila is the first company to design and develop targeted covalent drugs robustly, systematically and across the vast majority of target classes. This is enabled by Avila's proprietary Avilomics platform.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


