FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20030716160406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7.
          
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
                                 
Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Item 9.
          
Information Being Furnished Under Item 12
 
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On July 16, 2003, Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") issued a press release regarding Apple's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2003 and a related data sheet. A copy of Apple's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the related data sheet is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apple Reports Third Quarter Results
 
 
CUPERTINO, CaliforniaJuly 16, 2003Apple today announced financial results for its fiscal 2003 third quarter ended June 28, 2003. For the quarter, the Company posted a net profit of $19 million, or $.05 per diluted share. These results compare to a net profit of $32 million, or $.09 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenues for the quarter were $1.545 billion, up 8 percent from the year-ago quarter and up 5 percent sequentially, and gross margins were 27.7 percent, up from 27.4 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 39 percent of the quarter's revenues.
 
Apple shipped 771 thousand Macintosh units during the quarter.
 
"This was a great new product quarter for Apple, starting with the iTunes Music Store and the new third-generation iPods, and ending with the announcement of the Power Mac G5 and the developer preview of Panther, the fourth major release of Mac OS X," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO.  "Customer response to our new products has been very strong, and this quarter we are focused on delivering Power Mac G5s beginning in August and finishing Panther for release later this year."
 
"We are very proud to have exceeded our revenue target for the third quarter despite the difficult economic backdrop," said Fred Anderson, Apple's CFO. "We continue to be pleased with our working capital management and our ability to increase cash which totals over $4.5 billion.  Looking ahead to the fourth quarter of 2003, we expect an increase in revenues and a slight increase in earnings relative to the June quarter."
 
Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Apple is committed to bringing the best personal computing experience to students, educators, creative professionals and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software and Internet offerings.
 
Apple will provide live streaming of its Q3 2003 financial results conference call utilizing QuickTime, Apple's standards-based technology for live and on-demand audio and video streaming. The live webcast will begin at 2:30 p.m. PT on Wednesday, July 16, 2003 at http://www.apple.com/quicktime/qtv/earningsq303/ and will also be available for replay. The QuickTime player is available free for Macintosh and Windows users at www.apple.com/quicktime.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about future revenues, profit, and products.  These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ. Potential risks and uncertainties include continued competitive pressures in the marketplace; the effect competitive and economic factors and the Company's reaction to them may have on consumer and business buying decisions with respect to the Company's products; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery of new programs, products and successful technological innovations to the marketplace; the continued availability of certain components and services essential to the Company's business currently obtained by the Company from sole or limited sources; possible disruption in commercial activities caused by terrorist activity and armed conflict, such as changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced end-user purchases relative to expectations; possible disruption in commercial activity as a result of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS); risks associated with the Company's retail initiative including significant investment cost, uncertain consumer acceptance and potential impact on existing reseller relationships; the effect that the Company's dependency on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third-parties may have on the quality or quantity of products manufactured; and the ability of the Company to successfully evolve its operating system and attract sufficient Macintosh developers. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2002 and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2003 to be filed with the SEC.
Press Contact:
Lynn Fox
(408) 974-6209
lfox@apple.com
 
Investor Relations Contacts:
Nancy Paxton
(408) 974-5420
paxton1@apple.com
 
Joan Hoover
(408) 974-4570
hoover1@apple.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple's PR web site (www.apple.com/pr/) or call Apple's Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Includes eMac product line.
(1)
                                 
 
Power Mac G4 figures include server sales.
(2)
                                 
 
Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. Certain amounts in Q3'02 related to recent acquisitions and Internet Services have been reclassified from Other Segments to the Americas segment to conform to the Q3'03 presentation.
(3)
                                 


