FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20040414162733.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7.            Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
Item 12.         Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 14, 2004, Apple Computer, Inc. (Apple) issued a press release regarding Apple's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended March 27, 2004 and a related data sheet. A copy of Apple's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the related data sheet is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apple Reports Second Quarter Results
 
Earnings per Share Triples
 
iPod Shipments Grow Over 900 Percent
 
CUPERTINO, CaliforniaApril 14, 2004Apple today announced financial results for its fiscal 2004 second quarter ended March 27, 2004. For the quarter, the Company posted a net profit of $46 million, or $.12 per diluted share. These results compare to a net profit of $14 million, or $.04 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenue for the quarter was $1.909 billion, up 29 percent from the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was 27.8 percent, down from 28.3 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 43 percent of the quarter's revenue.
 
The quarter's results include an after-tax restructuring charge of $7 million. Excluding this charge, the Company's net profit for the quarter would have been $53 million, or $.14 per diluted share.
 
Apple shipped 749 thousand Macintosh units and 807 thousand iPods during the quarter, representing a 5 percent increase in CPU units and a 909 percent increase in iPods over the year-ago quarter.
 
"Apple had a great quarter with 29 percent revenue growth and 200 percent earnings per share growth year-over-year," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "We experienced growth in most areas of our businessmost dramatically in selling a record 807,000 iPods, up more than 900 percent over the prior year."
 
"We are very pleased with our third straight quarter of double-digit revenue growth," said Fred Anderson, Apple's CFO. "More importantly our results demonstrate operating margin expansion. Our balance sheet remains very strong with about $4.6 billion in cash and no debt. Looking ahead to the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we expect our fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year double-digit growth in both revenue and earnings, with revenue of about $1.925 billion. We expect GAAP earnings per diluted share of $.12 to $.13, including approximately $.02 per diluted share in restructuring charges."
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company believes that presentation of results excluding items such as restructuring charges and investment gains provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the Company's core operating results.
Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Apple is committed to bringing the best personal computing experience to students, educators, creative professionals and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software and Internet offerings.
 
Apple will provide live streaming of its Q2 2004 financial results conference call utilizing QuickTime, Apple's standards-based technology for live and on-demand audio and video streaming. The live webcast will begin at 2:00 p.m. PDT on Wednesday, April 14, 2004 at http://www.apple.com/quicktime/qtv/earningsq204/ and will also be available for replay. The QuickTime player is available free for Macintosh and Windows users at www.apple.com/quicktime.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the Company's estimated revenue and earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2004. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ. Potential risks and uncertainties include continued competitive pressures in the marketplace; the effect competitive and economic factors and the Company's reaction to them may have on consumer and business buying decisions with respect to the Company's products; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery of new programs, products and successful technological innovations to the marketplace; the continued availability of certain components and services essential to the Company's business currently obtained by the Company from sole or limited sources; possible disruption in commercial activities caused by terrorist activity and armed conflict, such as changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced end-user purchases relative to expectations; possible disruption in commercial activity as a result of major health concerns, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS); risks associated with the Company's retail initiative including significant investment cost, uncertain consumer acceptance and potential impact on existing reseller relationships; the effect that the Company's dependency on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third-parties may have on the quality or quantity of products manufactured; the Company's reliance on the availability of third-party music content, and the ability of the Company to successfully evolve its operating system and attract sufficient Macintosh developers. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2003, the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2003, and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2004 to be filed with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
 
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple's PR web site (http://www.apple.com/pr/) or call Apple's Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042
 
 
 2004 Apple. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Mac OS, Macintosh, iPod and QuickTime are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
Notes:
          Pre-tax restructuring costs
(a)
          Tax impact of restructuring costs
(b)
 
Notes:
          Pre-tax restructuring costs
(a)
          Pre-tax gain on sales of non-current investments
(b)
           Tax impact of restructuring costs and gain on sales of non-current investments
(c)

Exhibit 99.2
 
April 14, 2004
 
 
 
Includes eMac product line.
(1)
            
(2)    Power Mac figures include server sales.
(3)    Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker.
 
NM:  Not Meaningful


