FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20040714162934.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Item 12.           Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 14, 2004, Apple Computer, Inc. (Apple) issued a press release regarding Apple's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 26, 2004 and a related data sheet. A copy of Apple's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the related data sheet is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apple Reports Third Quarter Results
 
Revenue Increases 30 Percent and Net Profit Triples Year-Over-Year
 
 
CUPERTINO, CaliforniaJuly 14, 2004Apple today announced financial results for its fiscal 2004 third quarter ended June 26, 2004. For the quarter, the Company posted a net profit of $61 million, or $.16 per diluted share. These results compare to a net profit of $19 million, or $.05 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenue for the quarter was $2.014 billion, up 30 percent from the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was 27.8 percent, up from 27.7 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 39 percent of the quarter's revenue.
 
The quarter's results include an after-tax restructuring charge of $6 million. Excluding this charge, the Company's net profit for the quarter would have been $67 million, or $.17 per diluted share.
 
Apple shipped 876 thousand Macintosh units and 860 thousand iPods during the quarter, representing a 14 percent increase in CPU units and a 183 percent increase in iPods over the year-ago quarter.
 
"It was an outstanding quarterour highest third quarter revenue in eight years," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "Our Mac-based revenue grew a healthy 19 percent, and our music-based revenue grew an incredible 162 percent. We've got a strong product portfolio, with some amazing new additions coming later this year."
 
"We were very pleased with our 30 percent year-over-year revenue growth and our operating margin expansion," said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's CFO. "Looking ahead to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we expect revenue of about $2.1 billion and earnings per diluted share of $.16 to $.17, including $.01 per diluted share in restructuring charges."
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company believes that presentation of results excluding items such as restructuring charges and investment gains provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the Company's core operating results and facilitates comparison of operating results across reporting periods.
Apple will provide live streaming of its Q3 2004 financial results conference call utilizing QuickTime, Apple's standards-based technology for live and on-demand audio and video streaming. The live webcast will begin at 2:00 p.m. PDT on Wednesday, July 14, 2004 at http://www.apple.com/quicktime/qtv/earningsq304/ and will also be available for replay. The QuickTime player is available free for Macintosh and Windows users at www.apple.com/quicktime.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the Company's estimated revenue and earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ. Potential risks and uncertainties include continued competitive pressures in the marketplace; the effect competitive and economic factors and the Company's reaction to them may have on consumer and business buying decisions with respect to the Company's products; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery of new programs, products and successful technological innovations to the marketplace; the continued availability of certain components and services essential to the Company's business currently obtained by the Company from sole or limited sources, including the timely resolution of manufacturing issues associated with the G5 microprocessors used in many of the Company's Macintosh systems; possible disruption in commercial activities caused by terrorist activity and armed conflict, such as changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced end-user purchases relative to expectations; possible disruption in commercial activity as a result of major health concerns, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS); risks associated with the Company's retail initiative including significant investment cost, uncertain consumer acceptance and potential impact on existing reseller relationships; the effect that the Company's dependency on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third-parties may have on the quality or quantity of products manufactured; the Company's reliance on the availability of third-party music content, and the ability of the Company to successfully evolve its operating system and attract sufficient Macintosh developers. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2003; the Company's Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended December 27, 2003 and March 27, 2004; and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 2004 to be filed with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
 
Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award-winning desktop and notebook computers, OS X operating system, and iLife and professional applications. Apple is also spearheading the digital music revolution with its iPod portable music players and iTunes online music store.
Press Contact:
Steve Dowling
Apple
(408) 974-1896
sdowling@apple.com
 
Investor Relations Contacts:
Nancy Paxton
Apple
(408) 974-5420
paxton1@apple.com
 
Joan Hoover
Apple
(408) 974-4570
hoover1@apple.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple's PR web site (http://www.apple.com/pr/) or call Apple's Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042
 
 
 2004 Apple. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Mac, Mac OS and QuickTime are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(In millions, except share amounts)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
(In millions, except share and per share amounts)
 
UNAUDITED NON-GAAP CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except share and per share amounts)
 
THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 26, 2004
 
 
 
Notes:
 
(a)
           
Pre-tax restructuring costs
(b)
           
Tax impact of restructuring costs
UNAUDITED NON-GAAP CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OFOPERATIONS
(In millions, except share and per share amounts)
 
NINE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 26, 2004
 
 
Notes:
 
(a)
           
Pre-tax restructuring costs
(b)
           
Pre-tax gain on sales of non-current investments
(c)
            
Tax impact of restructuring costs and gain on sales of non-current investments

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
(1)   Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker.
(2)   Includes eMac product line.
(3)   Power Mac figures include server sales.
(4)   Other Music Products consists of iTunes Music Store sales and iPod related services and accessories.
 
NM:  Not Meaningful
 


