FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20050302170451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
Item 3.03 Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders; and
Item 5.03 Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On February 25, 2005, Apple Computer, Inc. amended its Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, to provide that the number of shares of Common Stock which the corporation is authorized to issue is 1,800,000,000 and that effective at 5 p.m. California time, on February 25, 2005 (the date of filing of the Certificate of Amendment of Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended) each share of Common Stock outstanding as of 5 p.m. California time on February 18, 2005 shall be automatically and with no further action by the holder of such shares split into two shares of Common Stock.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Conformed Copy as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of California on February 25, 2005
 
Gary Wipfler and Michelle A. LaVally certify that:
They are the Vice President and Treasurer, and the Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, respectively, of Apple Computer, Inc., a California corporation.
Article III of the Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, of this corporation is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
This corporation is authorized to issue two classes of shares designated respectively "Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock." The number of shares of Common Stock which this corporation is authorized to issue is 1,800,000,000. The number of shares of Preferred Stock which this corporation is authorized to issue is 5,000,000. Effective at 5 p.m., California time, on the date of filing of the Certificate of Amendment of Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, amending this Article hereby, each share of Common Stock outstanding as of 5p.m. California time on February 18, 2005 shall be automatically and with no further action by the holder of such shares split into two shares of Common Stock."
The foregoing amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, was duly approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 8, 2005, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout; the corporation has only one class of shares outstanding and no approval of the outstanding shares of the corporation is required pursuant to Section 902(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of California.
The undersigned declare under penalty of perjury that the matters set forth in the foregoing certificate are true of their own knowledge.
Executed at Cupertino, California on February 25, 2005.
/S/ Gary Wipfler
Gary Wipfler
Vice President and Treasurer
/S/ Michelle A. LaVally
Associate General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary


