FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20060419162916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 19, 2006, Apple Computer, Inc. (Apple) issued a press release regarding Apple's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2006 and a related data sheet. A copy of Apple's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the related data sheet is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 Item 9.01              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Apple Reports Second Quarter Results
 
Revenue Grows 34 Percent Year-over-Year; Earnings Increase 41 Percent
 
CUPERTINO, CaliforniaApril 19, 2006Apple today announced financial results for its fiscal 2006 second quarter ended April 1, 2006. The Company posted revenue of $4.36 billion and a net quarterly profit of $410 million, or $.47 per diluted share. These results compare to revenue of $3.24 billion and a net profit of $290 million, or $.34 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Gross margin was 29.8 percent, equivalent to the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 43 percent of the quarter's revenue.
 
Apple shipped 1,112,000 Macintosh computers and 8,526,000 iPods during the quarter, representing 4 percent growth in Macs and 61 percent growth in iPods over the year-ago quarter.
 
"We've generated over $10 billion in revenue and almost $1 billion in earnings in the first half of fiscal 2006," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "Our transition to Intel processors is going very well, and our music business just experienced another quarter of outstanding growth."
 
"We're very pleased to report the second highest quarterly sales in Apple's history, resulting in year-over-year revenue growth of 34 percent and earnings growth of 41 percent," said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's CFO. "Looking ahead to the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we expect revenue of about $4.2 to $4.4 billion. We expect GAAP earnings per diluted share of about $.39 to $.43, including an estimated $.04 per share expense impact from non-cash stock-based compensation, translating to non-GAAP EPS of about $.43 to $.47."
 
Apple will provide live streaming of its Q2 2006 financial results conference call utilizing QuickTime, Apple's standards-based technology for live and on-demand audio and video streaming. The live webcast will begin at 2:00 p.m. PDT on Wednesday, April 19, 2006 at http://www.apple.com/quicktime/qtv/earningsq206/ and will also be available for replay. The QuickTime player is available free for Macintosh and Windows users at www.apple.com/quicktime
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the Company's estimated revenue and earnings per share as well as the estimated expense impact of non-cash stock-based compensation for the third quarter of fiscal 2006. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ. Potential risks and uncertainties include continued competitive pressures in the marketplace; the effect competitive and economic factors and the Company's reaction to them may have on consumer and business buying decisions with respect to the Company's products; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery of new programs, products and successful technological innovations to the marketplace; the continued availability on acceptable terms of certain components and services essential to the Company's business currently obtained by the Company from sole or limited sources including G4 and G5 microprocessors; possible disruption in commercial activities caused by terrorist activity and armed conflict, such as changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced end-user purchases relative to expectations; possible disruption in commercial activity as a result of natural disasters or major health concerns including epidemics; risks associated with the Company's retail initiative including significant investment cost, uncertain consumer acceptance and potential impact on existing reseller relationships; the effect that the Company's dependency on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties may have on the quality, quantity or cost of products manufactured or services rendered; the Company's reliance on the availability of third-party digital content; the ability of the Company to successfully evolve its operating system; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery of new products with Intel microprocessors and related hardware and software technological changes and innovations to support Intel microprocessors; the development and availability on acceptable terms of components and services essential to enable the Company to deliver products based on Intel microprocessors in a timely manner; the Company's dependency on third-party software developers to timely develop future applications that support Intel microprocessors and Power PC microprocessors; and the potential negative ramifications of the transition of all Macs to Intel microprocessors by the end of calendar 2006, or the announcement of such planned transition, for sales of current or future Mac products with Power PC processors as well as for the Company's obligations under component purchase agreements. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2005, the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 1, 2006 to be filed with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
 
Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award-winning desktop and notebook computers, OS X operating system, and iLife and professional applications. Apple is also spearheading the digital music revolution with its iPod portable music players and iTunes online music store.
Press Contact:
Steve Dowling
(408) 974-1896
dowling@apple.com
 
Investor Relations Contacts:
Nancy Paxton
(408) 974-5420
paxton1@apple.com
 
Joan Hoover
(408) 974-4570
hoover1@apple.com
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple's PR website (www.apple.com/pr/
), or call Apple's Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
 2006 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Mac OS, Macintosh and QuickTime are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
(a)
      
These adjustments reconcile the Company's GAAP results of operations to its non-GAAP results of operations. The Company believes that presentation of results excluding items such as non-cash stock-based compensation, restructuring costs, and investment gains provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the Company's core operating results and facilitates comparison of operating results across reporting periods. The Company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as a substitute for the Company's GAAP results. The Company adopted the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 revised (123R) to expense stock-based compensation in its fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company accounted for employee stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB No. 25.
 
(b)
      
These adjustments reflect the non-cash stock-based compensation expense as measured under SFAS No. 123R related to unvested stock awards, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares.  The fair-value calculated expense as determined on the awards' grant date is recognized as the requisite service is rendered.
(c)
       
These adjustments reflect the non-cash compensation expense as measured under APB No. 25 related primarily to restricted stock awarded to the Company's CEO in fiscal 2003 and restricted stock units awarded to selected members of the Company's senior management team in fiscal 2004 and 2005. Note that neither the Company's GAAP nor non-GAAP results of operations in fiscal year 2005 included the accounting impact had the Company chosen to apply the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R.
 
(d)
      
Amount reflects the expected tax impact on the above noted non-GAAP adjustments.
 
 
(a)
      
These adjustments reconcile the Company's GAAP results of operations to its non-GAAP results of operations. The Company believes that presentation of results excluding items such as non-cash stock-based compensation, restructuring costs, and investment gains provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the Company's core operating results and facilitates comparison of operating results across reporting periods. The Company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as a substitute for the Company's GAAP results. The Company adopted the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 revised (123R) to expense stock-based compensation in its fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company accounted for employee stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB No. 25.
 
(b)
      
These adjustments reflect the non-cash stock-based compensation expense as measured under SFAS No. 123R related to unvested stock awards, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares.  The fair-value calculated expense as determined on the awards' grant date is recognized as the requisite service is rendered.
 
(c)
       
These adjustments reflect the non-cash compensation expense as measured under APB No. 25 related primarily to restricted stock awarded to the Company's CEO in fiscal 2003 and restricted stock units awarded to selected members of the Company's senior management team in fiscal 2004 and 2005. Note that neither the Company's GAAP nor non-GAAP results of operations in fiscal year 2005 included the accounting impact had the Company chosen to apply the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R.
 
(d)
      
Amount reflects the expected tax impact on the above noted non-GAAP adjustments.
The financial guidance provided below is an estimate based on information available as of April 19, 2006. The Company's future performance and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from the guidance set forth below. Some of the factors that could affect the Company's financial results are stated above in this press release.
More information on potential factors that could affect the Company's financial results is included from time to time in the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2005, the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 1, 2006 to be filed with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
 
 
(a)
      
These adjustments reconcile the Company's GAAP to its non-GAAP financial guidance for the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company believes that excluding items such as non-cash stock-based compensation provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the Company's core operating results and facilitates comparison of operating results across reporting periods. The Company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as a substitute for the Company's GAAP results.
 
(b)
      
Reflects the expected non-cash compensation expense attributable to stock-based compensation awards including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares. This amount reflects the total estimated expense from the application of SFAS No. 123R, which the Company adopted in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
(c)
       
This adjustment represents the expected net of tax impact on earnings per share from the non-GAAP adjustments related to stock-based compensation expense.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
(1)   Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker.
(2)   Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, PowerMac and Xserve product lines.
(3)   Includes iBook, PowerBook and MacBook Pro product lines.
(4)   Consists of iTunes Music Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories.
 
NM: Not Meaningful


