FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20090116061316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(b), (c)
On January 14, 2009, Apple Inc. ("Apple") issued a media advisory announcing Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs's medical leave of absence until the end of June. As CEO, Mr. Jobs plans to remain involved in major strategic decisions during this leave of absence, and Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook will be responsible for Apple's day to day operations. The media advisory is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
In satisfaction of the disclosure required pursuant to Sections 401(b) and 401(e) of Regulation S-K, the section of the Company's 2009 Proxy Statement, filed with the SEC on January 9, 2009, entitled "Executive Officers" is incorporated by reference herein. With respect to the disclosure required pursuant to Section 401(d) of Regulation S-K, there are no family relationships between Mr. Cook and any director or executive officer of Apple. With r espect to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K, there are no relationships or related transactions between Mr. Cook and Apple that would be required to be reported.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Apple CEO Steve Jobs today sent the following email to all Apple employees:
I am sure all of you saw my letter last week sharing something very personal with the Apple community. Unfortunately, the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at Apple as well. In addition, during the past week I have learned that my health-related issues are more complex than I originally thought.
In order to take myself out of the limelight and focus on my health, and to allow everyone at Apple to focus on delivering extraordinary products, I have decided to take a medical leave of absence until the end of June.
I have asked Tim Cook to be responsible for Apple's day to day operations, and I know he and the rest of the executive management team will do a great job. As CEO, I plan to remain involved in major strategic decisions while I am out. Our board of directors fully supports this plan.


