FILE:AAPL/AAPL-8K-20110224163338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Apple Inc. (the "Company") was held on February 23, 2011. At the Annual Meeting, the shareholders voted on the following six proposals and cast their votes as described below.
Proposal 1
The individuals listed below were elected at the Annual Meeting to serve a one-year term on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board").
 
Proposal 2
Proposal 2 was a management proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2011, as described in the proxy materials. This proposal was approved.
 
Proposal 3
Proposal 3 was a management proposal to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation, as described in the proxy materials. This proposal was approved.
 
Proposal 4
Proposal 4 was a management proposal to hold an advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation, as described in the proxy materials. "1 Year" was approved.
 
Based on these results, and consistent with the Company's recommendation, the Board has determined that the Company will hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every year.
Proposal 5
Proposal 5 was a shareholder proposal entitled "Amend the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines to Adopt and Disclose a Written CEO Succession Planning Policy," as described in the proxy materials. This proposal was not approved.
 
Proposal 6
Proposal 6 was a shareholder proposal entitled "Adopt a Majority Voting Standard for Director Elections," as described in the proxy materials. This proposal was approved.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


