FILE:CL/CL-8K-20020802123435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) August 2, 2002 COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware -------- (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-644-2 13-1815595 ------- ---------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 300 Park Avenue New York, NY 10022 ---------------------------- ----- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 310-2000 -------------- Total number of sequentially numbered pages in this filing, including exhibits thereto: 6
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure On August 2, 2002, each of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Reuben Mark, and Chief Financial Officer, Stephen C. Patrick, of Colgate-Palmolive Company submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") sworn statements certifying previously filed reports pursuant to Commission Order No. 4-460. Copies of these statements are attached hereto as Exhibits. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits The following Exhibits are included herein: Exhibit 99-A Statement under Oath of Principal Executive Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings Exhibit 99-B Statement under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY Date: August 2, 2002 By: /s/ Andrew D. Hendry -------------------------------- Andrew D. Hendry Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description 99-A Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings 99-B Statement under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings

EXHIBIT 99-A STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Reuben Mark, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Colgate-Palmolive Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Colgate-Palmolive Company; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Colgate-Palmolive Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Reuben Mark - ---------------------- Reuben Mark August 2, 2002 State of New York ) ) ss. County of New York ) Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2nd day of August 2002. /s/ ------------------------ Notary Public My Commission Expires:

EXHIBIT 99-B STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Stephen C. Patrick, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Colgate-Palmolive Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Colgate-Palmolive Company; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Colgate-Palmolive Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Stephen C. Patrick - -------------------------- Stephen C. Patrick August 2, 2002 State of New York ) ) ss. County of New York ) Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2nd day of August 2002. /s/ ----------------------- Notary Public My Commission Expires:


