FILE:CL/CL-8K-20051011162436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Facilities
 
On October 11, 2005, Colgate-Palmolive Company (the "Company") announced its intention to make the following change in its North American manufacturing network to increase efficiency and competitiveness, as part of the previously disclosed four-year restructuring and business-building program (the "Restructuring Program") described in the Company's Form 8-K filed December 10, 2004. The implementation of this project, which is described in more detail below, is subject to negotiation with the relevant union, representatives of which have been notified by the Company.
 
The Company plans to phase down production at its Jeffersonville Indiana plant over the next two years, with all production expected to cease by January 2008. The plan calls for transferring production of the Company's market leading Colgate-Total toothpaste to a new state of the art facility to be built at a U.S. location yet to be determined and the relocation of other production and administrative services currently performed at Jeffersonville to other facilities.
 
These changes will allow the Company to more cost effectively manufacture toothpaste, taking advantage of the latest state of the art technologies. The Company will discuss these plans with the union representing its Jeffersonville employees and expects to offer affected employees a comprehensive package of severance, transition assistance and other benefits consistent with the Company's long established practices.
 
Upon successful implementation, this project is projected to result in total charges of approximately $87 million after tax. Components of these charges include approximately $28 million after tax in asset-related costs, primarily accelerated depreciation, approximately $39 million after tax in employee-related costs, including termination benefits, subject to negotiation with the appropriate union, and approximately $20 million after tax in other associated costs. Approximately 51% of the total charges associated with this project is expected to result in future cash expenditures.
 
As previously disclosed the total cost of implementing the overall Restructuring Program, including the project described above, is projected to be between $550 million and $650 million after tax once all phases are approved and implemented, with annual savings projected to be in the range of $250 million and $300 million after tax by the fourth year of the program.
 
This periodic report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. For information about factors that could cause such differences, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, including information set forth under the caption "Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements."
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


