FILE:CL/CL-8K-20050712164214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99 is a copy of a press release of Colgate-Palmolive Company dated July 12, 2005. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this document.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Bina Thompson 212-310-3072
Hope Spiller 212-310-2291
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
New York, New York, July 12, 2005... Colgate-Palmolive Company (NYSE:CL) announced today its agreement to sell its North American heavy-duty laundry detergent brands to Phoenix Brands LLC. The transaction includes the sale of the detergent brands Fab, Dynamo, Arctic Power, ABC, Cold Power and Fresh Start, and the license of the Ajax brand for laundry detergents, in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico.
 
Reuben Mark, Colgate's Chairman and CEO said, "The sale of these detergent brands is an important part of Colgate's strategy to de-emphasize detergents while focusing on our high margin, fast-growing oral, personal and pet care businesses."
 
The sale, which is subject to approval by U.S. regulatory authorities, is expected to close in the third quarter of 2005 and generate a one-time after-tax gain of $60 million. Other one-time items expected in the third quarter 2005 include the previously disclosed restructuring charges of approximately $50 million after-tax and as expected, a one-time tax charge covering cash repatriation from overseas operations under the American Jobs Creation Act. It is expected that approximately $800 million will be repatriated at a one-time tax cost estimated at $35 million.
 
Mr. Mark concluded, "The sale of the North American detergent brands will increase our North American gross profit margin by 100 basis points and generate even greater focus on our strong and strategically vital oral, personal and pet care businesses."
 
About Colgate-Palmolive: Colgate-Palmolive is a leading global consumer products company, tightly focused on Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition. Colgate sells its products in over 200 countries and territories around the world under such internationally recognized brand names as Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, Elmex, Ajax, Axion, Soupline, Suavitel and Fab, as well as Hill's Science Diet and Hill's Prescription Diet pet foods. For more information about Colgate's global business, visit the Company's web site at http://www.colgate.com.
 
This press release (other than historical information) may contain forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Investors should consult the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the caption "Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004) for information about factors that could cause such differences. Copies of these filings may be obtained upon request from the Company's Investor Relations Department or the Company's web site at .
http://www.colgate.com


