FILE:CL/CL-8K-20060113162423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On January 12, 2006, the Board of Directors of Colgate-Palmolive Company elected Mr. J. Pedro Reinhard to the Board of Directors. Mr. Reinhard is the former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Dow Chemical Company and brings extensive global business experience to the Colgate Board from his 35 years of service at Dow. With the addition of Mr. Reinhard, the Board now has nine members.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or By-laws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On January 12, 2006 the Board of Directors amended By-law 50 of the Company, entitled "Certficates of Stock," to clarify that all signatures on the Company's stock certificates may be facsimiles. The text of the amended by-law is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed with this document:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
50. The certificates of stock of the corporation shall be numbered and entered in the books of the corporation as they are issued. They shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares and shall be signed by the chairman of the board or the president or a vice president and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or an assistant secretary. Any or all signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who shall have signed or whose facsimile signature shall have been used on any such certificate shall cease to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar of the corporation before such certificate is issued, such certificate may be issued as though such person who signed such certificate or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar of the corporation.


