FILE:CL/CL-8K-20100729092241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 29, 2010
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(212) 310-2000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 29, 2010, Colgate-Palmolive Company issued a press release announcing its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.  This press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d).  The following exhibit is filed with this document:
       Exhibits
2
EXHIBIT INDEX
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
4

Exhibit 99
Colgate Announces Record 2nd Quarter Earnings
Diluted Earnings Per Share of $1.17, Exceeding Expectations
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 29, 2010--Colgate-Palmolive Company (NYSE:CL) today announced record operating profit, net income and diluted earnings per share for the second quarter 2010.
Worldwide sales were $3,814 million, up 2.0% versus the year ago quarter and volume increased 3.0%. Global pricing increased 0.5% while foreign exchange was negative 1.5%. Organic sales (excluding foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) grew 3.5%. Net income increased 7% in second quarter 2010 to $603 million and diluted earnings per share increased 9% to $1.17. Net income and diluted earnings per share in second quarter 2009 were $562 million and $1.07, respectively.
Gross profit margin was 58.8%, even with the year ago quarters record level, primarily reflecting benefits from cost-savings initiatives offset by the impact of negative foreign exchange, higher trade investments and a 90 basis point reduction due to Venezuela.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 70 basis points to 33.9% of net sales in second quarter 2010 from 34.6% in second quarter 2009. Worldwide advertising spending increased to $395 million, up 1% versus the year ago quarter.
Operating profit increased 7% to $948 million in second quarter 2010 compared to $887 million in second quarter 2009, increasing to 24.9% from 23.7% as a percent to sales.
Net cash provided by operations year to date increased by 8% to $1,302 million. Working capital as a percentage of sales improved by 140 basis points versus the comparable 2009 period. These results reflect the strength of the Companys overall balance sheet and key ratios as well as its tight focus on working capital.
Ian Cook, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer commented, Overall, we are very pleased to have delivered solid results this quarter, despite heightened competitive activity and difficult economic conditions around the world.
We are delighted that Colgates global market shares in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes are both at record highs year to date. Colgates share of the global toothpaste market strengthened to 44.4% year to date, led by share gains in Brazil, China, India, Russia, Venezuela, France and the United Kingdom. Colgate also strengthened its global leadership in manual toothbrushes, with its global market share in that category reaching 31.6% year to date, up 1.4 share points versus year ago.
Its great that even after higher levels of commercial investment worldwide, operating profit and net income both increased during the quarter, both absolutely and as a percent to sales.
Our business fundamentals are strong and we have a very full pipeline of new products planned for launch in the second half of the year with continued strong levels of commercial spending to support them.
As we look to the balance of the year, foreign exchange volatility worldwide and the economic environment in Venezuela remain challenging. We currently estimate the full year impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela to be a net reduction in 2010 earnings of $.10 to $.15 per diluted share compared with our previous estimate of $.06 to $.10 per diluted share. Gross profit margin is expected to be up nicely for the year, and based on current exchange rates, we remain optimistic that 2010 will be another year of double-digit earnings per share growth, excluding the previously announced first quarter 2010 one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela.
At 11:00 a.m. ET today, Colgate will host a conference call to elaborate on second quarter results. To access this call as a webcast, please go to Colgates web site at .
http://www.colgate.com
The following are comments about divisional performance. See attached Geographic Sales Analysis and Segment Information schedules for additional information on divisional sales and operating profit.
North America (20% of Company Sales)
North America sales grew 4.5% in the second quarter. Volume increased 5.0% with 1.5% lower pricing and 1.0% positive foreign exchange. Organic sales grew 3.5% during the quarter. North America operating profit increased 14% during the quarter due to higher sales, higher gross profit margins and cost-savings initiatives.
In the U.S., new product launches across price points are contributing to growth in oral care including Colgate Triple Action, Colgate ProClinical and Colgate Max White with Mini Bright Strips toothpastes. Colgates share of the manual toothbrush market reached a record 33.8% year to date, up 2.4 share points versus year ago, including Colgate Wisp mini-brush whose market share is at 5.2% year to date. Colgate 360 ActiFlex and Colgate Max White manual toothbrushes also contributed to the share gains.
Successful new products contributing to growth in the U.S. in other categories include Softsoap Nutri Serums and Softsoap Vanilla Body Butter Mega Moisture body washes, Speed Stick and Lady Speed Stick Stainguard deodorants and Ajax Lime with Bleach Alternative dish liquid.
Exciting new products planned for launch in the balance of the year include Colgate Sensitive Multi Protection toothpaste, Softsoap Nutri Serums Mineral Extracts and Softsoap Black Orchid and Velvet Hibiscus body washes, and Softsoap Sea Minerals liquid hand soap.
Latin America (28% of Company Sales)
Latin America sales grew 0.5% and volume increased 1.0%. Volume gains achieved in nearly every country led by Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Dominican Republic and Central America more than offset a volume decline in Venezuela. Volume excluding Venezuela increased 5%. Higher pricing added 7.0% and foreign exchange was negative 7.5%. Organic sales for Latin America grew 8.0% during the quarter. Latin America operating profit decreased 10% during the quarter, primarily due to the impact of remeasuring our Venezuelan financial statements at a lower exchange rate due to the currency devaluation noted above.
Colgates strong leadership in oral care throughout Latin America continues, driven by market share gains in nearly every country. In Brazil, for example, Colgates toothpaste market share reached 70.6% year to date, up 60 basis points versus year ago. Strong sales of Colgate Sensitive Pro-Alivio and Colgate Total Professional Whitening drove share gains throughout the region. Colgates leadership of the manual toothbrush market in the region also continues, driven by strong sales of Colgate 360 ActiFlex, Colgate Premier Clean, Colgate Classic and Colgate 360 Pro-Alivio manual toothbrushes.
In other product categories, Colgate Plax Sensitive and Colgate Plax Whitening Tartar Control mouthwashes, Palmolive Perfect Tone and Protex Propolis bar soaps, Protex Aloe liquid hand soap, Axion CitricVinegar dish liquid, Lady Speed Stick and Speed Stick Waterproof deodorants, Fabuloso Continuous Effect liquid cleaner, and Suavitel GoodBye Ironing and Suavitel Magic Moments fabric conditioners contributed to market share gains in the region.
Europe/South Pacific (20% of Company Sales)
Europe/South Pacific sales decreased 2.5% during the quarter. Volume increased 1.5%, pricing decreased 2.5% and foreign exchange was negative 1.5%. Volume gains in the GABA business, the United Kingdom, Italy and Adria more than offset volume declines in Belgium, Spain and Greece. Organic sales for Europe/South Pacific declined 1.0%. Operating profit for the region increased 4% during the quarter reflecting the benefits from cost-savings initiatives, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange and higher advertising.
Colgate maintained its oral care leadership in the Europe/South Pacific region with toothpaste share gains in France, Italy, Portugal, Greece, the United Kingdom, Spain, Denmark, Czech Republic, Norway, Sweden, Poland, Austria and Belgium. Successful premium products driving share gains include Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Total Advanced Clean, Colgate Total Advanced Sensitive and Colgate Max Fresh with Mouthwash Beads toothpastes. In the manual toothbrush category, Colgate 360 ActiFlex and Colgate Total Professional toothbrushes contributed to share gains in key countries throughout the region.
Recent premium innovations contributing to growth in other product categories include Colgate Plax Alcohol Free and Colgate Plax Ice mouth rinses, Palmolive Nutra-Fruit shower creme, Palmolive Sublime liquid hand wash and the Natura Verde line of home care products made with ingredients of natural origin and biodegradable formulas.
Greater Asia/Africa (19% of Company Sales)
Greater Asia/Africa sales and volume increased 14.0% and 11.5%, respectively. Volume gains were led by India, the Greater China region, Thailand, Russia and South Africa. Pricing decreased 1.5% and foreign exchange was positive 4.0%. Organic sales for Greater Asia/Africa increased 10.0%. Operating profit for the region increased 31% during the quarter as higher sales, cost-savings initiatives and lower raw and packaging material costs more than offset increased advertising.
Colgate maintained its toothpaste leadership in Greater Asia with market share gains in key countries throughout the region including India, China, Russia, Malaysia, Singapore, Ukraine and Taiwan. In India, for example, Colgates toothpaste market share reached 51.1% year to date, up 170 basis points versus year ago. Successful new products driving the share gains throughout the region include Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Total Professional Sensitive and Colgate 360 Whole Mouth Clean toothpastes.
Successful products contributing to growth in other categories in the region include Colgate 360 ActiFlex, Colgate Max White, Colgate Massager and Colgate Zig Zag manual toothbrushes, Colgate Plax Sensitive mouthwash, and Palmolive Spa Banya and Palmolive Nutra-Fruit shower gels.
Hills (13% of Company Sales)
Hills sales declined 7.5% during the quarter. Volume decreased 4.0%, pricing decreased 4.0% and foreign exchange was positive 0.5%. Volume declined in the U.S., France, the United Kingdom, Japan and Russia, while volume gains were achieved in Canada, Mexico and South Africa. Hills organic sales declined 8.0% during the quarter. Hills sales and volume in the quarter were adversely impacted by the roll out of Hills comprehensive re-sizing and re-pricing initiative which took longer than anticipated to flow into the marketplace. With this initiative now fully in place in all key markets, Hills consumption, as measured on a unit sales basis, has been increasing and was up nicely in the United States for the month of June. Operating profit decreased 4% during the quarter as lower sales and pricing more than offset benefits from cost-savings initiatives and lower raw and packaging material costs.
Recent new product introductions succeeding in the U.S. include Science Diet Healthy Mobility Canine, Science Diet Small and Toy Breed Canine, and a significantly expanded line of Science Diet Simple Essentials Treats Canine launched late last year.
New pet food products contributing to international sales include Science Plan Snacks Canine and Science Plan Vet Essentials Canine and Feline, a range of veterinary exclusive products addressing the top five essential health needs of pets.
* * *
About Colgate-Palmolive: Colgate-Palmolive is a leading global consumer products company, tightly focused on Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition. Colgate sells its products in over 200 countries and territories around the world under such internationally recognized brand names as Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, Elmex, Toms of Maine, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hills Science Diet and Hills Prescription Diet. For more information about Colgates global business, visit the Company's web site at .
http://www.colgate.com
Substantially all market share data included in this press release is compiled from data as measured by ACNielsen.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and the related webcast (other than historical information) may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements may relate, for example, to sales or volume growth, organic sales growth, profit and profit margin growth, earnings growth, financial goals, the impact of the currency devaluation or exchange controls in Venezuela, cost-reduction plans, tax rates and new product introductions. These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and we undertake no obligation to update these statements. We caution investors that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Investors should consult the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the caption Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009) for information about certain factors that could cause such differences. Copies of these filings may be obtained upon request from the Companys Investor Relations Department or the Companys web site at .
http://www.colgate.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following provides information regarding the non-GAAP measures used in this earnings release and/or the related webcast:
To supplement Colgate's condensed consolidated income statements presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), the Company has disclosed non-GAAP measures of operating results that exclude certain items. Operating profit, operating profit margin, net income and earnings per share are discussed both as reported (on a GAAP basis) and excluding the impact of the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela as of January 1, 2010. Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Companys ongoing operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations. See Table 3  Non-GAAP Reconciliation for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 included with this release for a reconciliation of these financial measures to the related GAAP measures.
This release discusses organic sales growth (excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments). Management believes this measure provides investors with useful supplemental information regarding the Companys underlying sales trends by presenting sales growth excluding the external factor of foreign exchange as well as the impact from acquisitions and divestments. See Geographic Sales Analysis, Percentage Changes  Second Quarter 2010 vs. 2009 for a comparison of organic sales growth to sales growth in accordance with GAAP.
The Company uses these financial measures internally in its budgeting process and as factors in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these financial measures are useful in evaluating the Companys business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
The Company defines free cash flow before dividends as net cash provided by operations less capital expenditures. As management uses this measure to evaluate the Companys ability to satisfy current and future obligations, repurchase stock, pay dividends and fund future business opportunities, the Company believes that it provides useful information to investors. Free cash flow before dividends is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since the Company has certain non-discretionary obligations such as debt service that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow before dividends is not a GAAP measurement and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 for a comparison of free cash flow before dividends to net cash provided by operations as reported in accordance with GAAP.
(See attached tables for second quarter results.)
CONTACT: Colgate-Palmolive Company Bina Thompson, 212-310-3072 or Hope Spiller, 212-310-2291


