FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20050518164701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 1.01
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
Compensation Matters
     On May 12, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors (the "") of Range Resources Corporation (the "") authorized and approved (i) modifications to the annual base salaries of our named executive officers for 2005 (effective June 1, 2005) and (ii) compensation arrangements for our non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman of the Board for the 2005-2006 Board term.
Compensation Committee
Board
Company
     
Executive Compensation
     The Compensation Committee authorized and approved annual base salaries of our named executive officers (effective June 1, 2005) as follows: John H. Pinkerton, President and Chief Executive Officer - $480,000; Jeffrey L. Ventura, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - $360,000; Roger S. Manny, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - $250,000; Rodney L. Waller - $225,000; and Chad L. Stephens, Senior Vice President  Corporate Development - $225,000.
     
Director Compensation
     The Compensation Committee authorized and approved (a) compensation arrangements for non-employee directors for service on the Board and its committees for the 2005-2006 period and (b) compensation arrangements for the non-executive Chairman of the Board as follows:
     Non-employee directors (i) upon re-election to the Board at the May 18, 2005, annual meeting will be awarded, pursuant to the Company's 2004 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (A) options to purchase 8,000 shares of the Company's common stock, par value, $.01 per share (""), which options will have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005, will be fully vested upon grant and will have a term of five years, and (B) 2,500 shares of unregistered Common Stock which will be fully vested upon grant or, at each director's election, the cash equivalent (based on the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005) to be placed, for each director's account, in the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Select Employees (the "") and (ii) will receive (x) a cash retainer fee of $35,000 per year, payable quarterly, and (y) meeting fees of $1,000 for each meeting of the Board or committee thereof attended in person or by telephone.
Common Stock
Deferred Compensation Plan
     The non-executive Chairman of the Board will receive (i) $100,000 per year payable quarterly in cash, one-half paid directly to the non-executive Chairman of the Board and one-half paid directly to the Deferred Compensation Plan for such director's account, (ii) a cash retainer fee of $35,000 per year, payable quarterly, to be placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan for such director's account, and (iii) the compensation paid to other non-employee directors as set forth in items (i) (A) and (B) and (ii) (y) in the immediately preceding paragraph.
     A copy of the Deferred Compensation Plan and the 2004 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 hereto, respectively. A copy of the form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2004 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 hereto. A summary of non-employee director compensation is filed as Exhibit 10.4 hereto.
     
Indemnity Agreements
     Effective May 18, 2005, the Company entered into indemnification agreements (the "") with each of its directors and the executive officers set forth on Exhibit 10.6 hereto. Those agreements require the Company, to the extent permitted under applicable law, to indemnity such persons against all expenses, judgments, fines and penalties incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of any actions
Indemnity Agreements
Table of Contents
brought against them by reason of the fact that they are or were directors or executive officers of the Company or assumed certain responsibilities at the direction of the Company.
     The foregoing summary of the Indemnity Agreements is qualified by reference to the full text of the form of Indemnity Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.5 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
The 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan
     On May 18, 2005, the Company's stockholders approved the Range Resources Corporation 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan (the ""). Additionally, the stockholders of the Company approved the First Amendment to the Range Resources Corporation 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan (the ""). Each approval was pursuant to proposals which were submitted to the stockholders at the Company's 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
2005 Plan
First Amendment
     
Administration
     The Board will appoint the Compensation Committee to administer the 2005 Plan pursuant to its terms and all applicable state, federal, or other rules or laws, except in the event the Board chooses to take action under the 2005 Plan. Unless otherwise limited by the 2005 Plan, Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ""), or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), the Compensation Committee has broad discretion to administer the 2005 Plan, interpret its provisions, and adopt policies for implementing the 2005 Plan. This discretion includes the power to determine to whom and when Awards (as defined below) will be granted, determine the amount of such Awards (measured in cash, shares of Common Stock, or as otherwise designated), proscribe and interpret the terms and provisions of each Award agreement (the terms of which may vary), accelerate the exercise terms of an Option (as defined below), delegate duties under the 2005 Plan, terminate, modify or amend the 2005 Plan (subject to Board ratification), and execute all other responsibilities permitted or required under the 2005 Plan.
Exchange Act
Code
     
Eligibility
     Any individual who provides services to the Company or its subsidiaries, including non-employee directors of and consultants for the Company (an ""), and is designated by the Compensation Committee to receive an Award under the 2005 Plan will be a "Participant;" provided, however, that only employees may receive Incentive Options (as defined below).
Eligible Person
     
Awards
     The 2005 Plan provides for grants of (i) incentive stock options qualified as such under U.S. federal income tax laws (""), (ii) stock options that do not qualify as incentive stock options (together with Incentive Options, ""), (iii) stock appreciation rights, (iv) restricted stock awards (""), (v) phantom stock rights, (vi) annual cash incentive awards, or (vii) any combination of such awards (collectively referred to as "").
Incentive Options
Options
Restricted Stock Awards
Awards
     
Securities to be Offered
     The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock, that may be granted for any and all Awards under the 2005 Plan (subject to any adjustment due to recapitalization or reorganization permitted under the 2005 Plan) will not exceed a number equal to (i) 9,250,000 shares of Stock (the number of shares of Stock approved for issuance under the Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "")), less (ii) the number of shares of Stock issued under the 1999 Plan prior to the Effective Date and the number of shares issuable pursuant to awards under the 1999 Plan outstanding as of the Effective Date, plus (iii) the number of shares that become available for delivery under the 1999 Plan after the Effective Date with respect to awards that lapse or are terminated and with respect to which shares are not issued. No further awards will be granted under the 1999 Plan.
1999 Plan
Table of Contents
     
Change in Control
     Upon a change in control (as such term is defined in the 2005 Plan) the Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, effect a number of alternatives with respect to Options (which may vary both among different holders and different Options held by the same holder) as specified in the 2005 Plan. The Compensation Committee will make such changes as it deems appropriate in the number and price of shares of Stock or other consideration subject to other Awards. Also, the Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, fully vest and cause all restrictions to lapse applicable to any Restricted Stock Award. Any such action may vary both among different Restricted Stock Award holders and different Restricted Stock Awards held by the same holder. As currently drafted, the Company's change in control plans provide for the accelerated vesting of Awards upon a change in control.
     
Amendments
     Without stockholder approval, the Board may at any time and from time to time with respect to any shares which, at the time, are not subject to Awards, suspend, discontinue, revise, or amend the 2005 Plan in any respect whatsoever, and may amend any provision of the 2005 Plan or any Award agreement to make the 2005 Plan or the Award agreement, or both, comply with Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and the exemptions therefrom, the Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or any other law, rule or regulation that may affect the 2005 Plan. Such amendments are subject to stockholder approval to the extent such approval is required by any state or federal law and regulation or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the ""). Further, no Award may be altered or amended, and no exchange of Awards may be effected that, in either case, would constitute the repricing of Options for the purposes of the rules of the NYSE.
NYSE
     The foregoing summary of the 2005 Plan is qualified by reference to the full text of the 2005 Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.7 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
The First Amendment
     The First Amendment (i) increases the number of shares of common stock authorized to be issued under the 2005 Plan by 750,000 shares and (ii) ensures the full deductibility of certain performance-based Awards related to Stock made to Covered Employees (as defined in the 2005 Plan) by providing that Awards made to Covered Employees related to the additional 750,000 shares will constitute performance-based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
     Additionally, the First Amendment establishes the following per person award limitations. In any 12-month period established by the Committee, during any part of which this Plan is in effect, a Covered Employee may not be granted Awards, with respect to the 162(m) Covered Shares, relating to more than 300,000 shares of Stock with respect to Stock-based Awards, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2005 Plan, or $2,500,000 with respect to Awards the value of which is not based on Stock.
     The foregoing summary of the First Amendment is qualified by reference to the full text of the First Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.8 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 18, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.3
THE SHARES ISSUABLE PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMPANY'S 2004 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN AND THIS AGREEMENT IS ENTERED INTO PURSUANT THERETO.
     (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the date shown above by and between Range Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and the above named Participant (the "Participant"):
THIS STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT
     , the Company in order to induce you to enter into and continue in service to the Company as a director and to contribute to the success of the Company, agrees to grant you an option to acquire shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company ("Stock");
WHEREAS
     , the Company adopted the Range Resources Corporation 2004 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan as it may be amended from time-to-time (the "Plan") under which the Company is authorized to grant stock options to directors of the Company;
WHEREAS
     , a copy of the Plan has been furnished to you and shall be deemed a part of this Agreement as if fully set forth herein; and
WHEREAS
     , you desire to accept the option created pursuant to the Agreement.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein and for other valuable consideration hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
     1. . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement, the Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the date shown above (the "Date of Grant"), as a matter of separate inducement and not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for your services for the Company, the right and option to purchase (the "Option"), in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, an aggregate of 8,000 shares of the Company's Stock (the "Option Shares"), at the price shown above (the "Exercise Price"). The Option granted hereunder is intended to constitute an Option which is not designed pursuant to section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; however, you should consult with your tax advisor concerning the proper reporting of any federal, state, or local tax liability that may arise as a result of the grant or exercise of the Option.
The Grant
     2.
Vesting and Exercise of Option
          (a) . This Option is 100% vested and exercisable on the Date of Grant.
Vesting of Option
          (b) . The Option will continue to be exercisable following the Participant's departure from the Board for the remaining term of the Option. In the event the Participant dies or becomes incapacitated during the term of this Option, the Option may be exercised by the Participant's estate, heir, legatee, distributee, or legal representative for the remainder of its term.
Termination of Directorship
 
          (c) . Subject to the relevant provisions and limitations contained herein and in the Plan, you may exercise the Option to purchase all or a portion of the applicable number of Option Shares at any time prior to the termination of the Option pursuant to this Agreement. The Option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time by written notice to the Company at its principal executive office, which notice shall: (i) specify the number of shares to be purchased and the purchase price to be paid therefore; (ii) if the person exercising this Option is not the Participant himself, contain or be accompanied by satisfactory evidence of such person's right to exercise this Option; and (iii) be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price in the form of a certified or cashier's check to order of the Company. This Option may not be exercised for a fractional share. In the event all of the Option Shares subject to this Agreement have been purchased but for a fractional share, the fractional share shall automatically and without notice, terminate and become null and void. The exercise of this Option will be subject to and pursuant to such additional rules and procedures established by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Exercise of Option
          (d) . The Option may not be exercised in any event after the expiration of five years from the Date of Grant.
Term of Option
     3. . This Agreement and the Option granted hereunder will not be transferable or assignable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability
     4. Recapitalization or Reorganization.
          (a) . The existence of the Plan and this Option shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of debt or equity securities ahead of or affecting Stock or the rights thereof, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding.
Existence of Plan and Option
          (b) . The terms of this Option shall be subject to adjustment from time to time, in accordance with the following provisions:
Subdivision or Consolidation of Option Shares
          (i) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall subdivide as a whole (by reclassification, by a stock split, by the issuance of a distribution on Stock payable in Stock, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a greater number of             shares of Stock, then the number of Option Shares specified in Section 1 above shall be increased proportionately and the Exercise Price shall be reduced proportionately, without changing the aggregate value as to which the Option remains exercisable.
          (ii) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall consolidate as a whole (by reclassification, reverse stock split, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a lesser number of shares of Stock, the number of Option Shares specified in Section 1 above shall be decreased proportionately and the Exercise Price shall be increased proportionately, without changing the aggregate value as to which the Option remains exercisable.
          (iii) Whenever the Option Shares are required to be adjusted as provided in this Section 4(b), the Committee shall promptly prepare and deliver to the Participant a notice setting forth, in reasonable detail, the event requiring adjustment, the amount of the adjustment, the method by which such adjustment was calculated, the change in the number of Option Shares specified in Section 1 above, and the change in the Exercise Price after giving effect to the adjustments. The Committee shall promptly give the Participant such a notice.
          (iv) Adjustments under Sections 4(b)(i) and (ii) shall be made by the Committee, and its determination as to what adjustments shall be made and the extent thereof shall be final, binding, and conclusive.
 
          (c) . If the Company recapitalizes, reclassifies its capital stock, or otherwise changes its capital structure (a "recapitalization"), the Option Shares shall be adjusted so that the Option shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of capital stock and securities to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the recapitalization if, immediately prior to the recapitalization, the holder had been the holder of record of the Option Shares then covered by the Option. Upon a Change in Control (as such term is defined below), the Committee, acting in its sole discretion without the consent or approval of the Participant, shall effect one or more of the following alternatives, which may vary among individual holders and which may differ from other awards held by the Participant: (1) provide that the Option may be exercised for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Change in Control) fixed by the Committee, after which date the Option, to the extent unexercised, and all rights of the holder thereunder shall terminate, (2) require the mandatory surrender to the Company of the Option as of a date, before or after such Change in Control, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel the Option and pay or cause to be paid to the holder an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the amount calculated in Section 4(d) (the "Change in Control Price") of the Option Shares over the Exercise Price for such shares, (3) provide that the number and class of shares of Stock covered by this Option shall be adjusted so that the Option shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of stock or other securities or property (including, without limitation, cash) to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement of merger, consolidation or sale of assets and dissolution if, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or sale of assets and dissolution, the holder had been the holder of record of the Option Shares, or (4) make such adjustment to the Option as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Change in Control (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole discretion that no adjustment is necessary to the Option). The provisions contained in this Section 4(c) shall not terminate any rights of the holder to further payments pursuant to any other agreement with the Company following a Change in Control. For purposes of the this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
          (i) Any Acquiring Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 35% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Stock (the "Outstanding Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (a) any acquisition directly from the Company, or (b) any acquisition by any Person pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) of this Section 4(c);
          (ii) A majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election;
          (iii) The stockholders of the Company approve a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition (in one or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another corporation which is consummated (a "Business Combination") (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a Business Combination), in each case, unless, immediately following such Business Combination, (c) individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, upon consummation of such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company, or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (d) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 35% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation
 
resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership of the Company existed prior to the Business Combination and (e) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination;
          (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a liquidation or dissolution); or
          (v) A public announcement or commencement is made of a tender or exchange offer by any Acquiring Person for, or upon completion of which any Acquiring Person would beneficially own, 50% or more of the outstanding Voting Securities of the Company, and the Board approves or fails to oppose that tender or exchange offer in its statements in Schedule 14D-9 under the Exchange Act; provided thatwithin one year after the occurrence of such event, an event described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Section 4(c) shall have occurred (in which case a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of the occurrence of the event described above in this clause (v)).
,
          (d) . For purposes of this Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, the "Change in Control Price" shall equal the amount determined in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) below, whichever is applicable, as follows: (i) the per share price offered to holders of the same class of Stock of the Company in any merger or consolidation, (ii) the per share value of the Stock immediately before the Change in Control (without regard to assets sold in the Change in Control and assuming the Company has received the consideration paid for the assets) in the case of a sale of the assets, (iii) the amount distributed per share of Stock in a dissolution transaction, (iv) the price per share offered to holders of the same class of Stock of the Company in any tender offer or exchange offer whereby a Change in Control takes place, or (v) if such Change in Control occurs other than pursuant to a tender or exchange offer, the fair market value per share of the shares into which the Option being surrendered are exercisable, as determined by the Committee as of the date determined by the Committee to be the date of cancellation and surrender of the Option. In the event that the consideration offered to stockholders of the Company in any transaction described in this Section 4(d) or Section 4(c) above consists of anything other than cash, the Committee shall determine the fair cash equivalent of the portion of the consideration offered which is other than cash.
Change in Control Price
     5. . This Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon the Participant any right to continue as a director of the Company.
No Right to Continued Directorship
     6. . As partial consideration for the granting of the Option hereunder, the Participant hereby agrees with the Company that the Participant will keep confidential all information and knowledge that the Participant has relating to the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided, however, that such information may be disclosed as required by law and may be given in confidence to the Participant's spouse, tax and financial advisors, or to a financial institution to the extent that such information is necessary to secure a loan. In the event any breach of this promise comes to the attention of the Company, it shall take into consideration that breach in determining whether to recommend the grant of any future similar award to the Participant, as a factor militating against the advisability of granting any such future award to the Participant.
Information Confidential
     7. . This Agreement shall at all times be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Committee shall have sole and complete discretion with respect to all matters reserved to it by the Plan and decisions of a majority of the Committee with respect thereto and this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Participant and the Company. In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
Administration
     8. . This Agreement and the Plan constitute an equity-based compensation bonus arrangement and, as such, does not constitute an arrangement subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. This Agreement and the Plan shall not give a Participant
Not an Employee Benefit Plan
 
any security or other interest in any assets of the Company; rather the Recipient's right to the Option is that of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
     9. . The Company, the Committee and the members of the Board shall not be liable for any act, omission or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to this Agreement or the Option granted hereunder.
No Liability for Good Faith Determinations
     10. . The Company, the Committee and the members of the Board do not guarantee the Stock from loss or depreciation.
No Guarantee of Interests
     11. . Records of the Company regarding the Participant's period of service, departure from the Board and the reason therefor, and other matters shall be conclusive for all purposes hereunder, unless determined by the Company to be incorrect.
Company Records
     12. . Any action required of the Company shall be by resolution of its Board or by a person authorized to act by resolution of the Board.
Company Action
     13. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, but such provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.
Severability
     14. . All notices required or permitted under this Agreement must be in writing and personally delivered or sent by mail and shall be deemed to be delivered on the date on which it is actually received by the person to whom it is properly addressed. A notice shall be effective when actually received by the Company in writing and in conformance with this Agreement and the Plan.
Notices
     15. . Any person entitled to notice hereunder may waive such notice.
Waiver of Notice
     16. . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Participant, the Participant's legal representatives, heirs, legatees and distributees, and upon the Company, its successors and assigns.
Successors
     17. . The titles and headings of Sections are included for convenience of reference only and are not to be considered in construction of the provisions hereof.
Headings
     18. . All questions arising with respect to the provisions of this Agreement shall be determined by application of the laws of the State of Texas without regard to choice of law provisions thereunder, except to the extent Texas law is preempted by federal law.
Governing Law
     19. . Words used in the masculine shall apply to the feminine where applicable, and wherever the context of this Agreement dictates, the plural shall be read as the singular and the singular as the plural.
Word Usage
     20. . The Participant may not assign this Agreement or any of the Participant's rights under this Agreement, and any purported or attempted assignment without such prior written consent shall be void.
No Assignment
     21. . This Agreement may be amended by the Committee or the Board; provided, however, that no amendment may decrease Participant's rights inherent in this Agreement prior to such amendment without Participant's express written consent. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 21, this Agreement may be amended by the Committee to the extent necessary to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to conform the provisions of this Agreement to any changes thereto.
Amendment
     22. . Participant agrees to furnish to the Company all information requested by the Company to enable it to comply with any reporting or other requirement imposed upon the Company by or under any applicable statute or regulation.
Furnish Information
 
     23. . Unless and until a certificate or certificates representing shares of Stock have been issued by the Company to the Participant, the Participant (or the person permitted to exercise this Option in the event of the Participant's death or disability) shall not be or have the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares acquirable upon exercise of this Option.
Stockholder Rights
     24. . Any payment of cash or any issuance or transfer of shares of Stock or other property to the Participant, or to the Participant's legal representative, heir, legatee or distributee, shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims of such persons hereunder. The Company may require the Participant or the Participant's legal representative, heir, legatee or distributee, as a condition precedent to such payment or issuance, to execute a release and receipt therefore in such form as it shall determine.
Execution of Receipts and Releases
     25. . The Company shall be entitled to recover from the Participant reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the enforcement of the terms and provisions of this Agreement whether by an action to enforce specific performance or for damages for its breach or otherwise.
Remedies
     26. . Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company to issue any shares upon exercise of all or a portion of the Option if that issuance would, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, constitute a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable statute or regulation, or the rules of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. At the time of any exercise of the Option, the Company may, as a condition precedent to the exercise of the Option, require from the Participant (or in the event of his death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) such written representations, if any, concerning the holder's intentions with regard to the retention or disposition of the shares of Stock being acquired pursuant to the Option and such written covenants and agreements, if any, as to the manner of disposal of such shares as, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, may be necessary to ensure that any disposition by that holder (or in the event of the holder's death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) will not involve a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable state or federal statute or regulation, or any rule of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. The Option shall not be exercisable unless and until the Participant has performed services for the Company that the Committee believes is equal to or greater in value than the par value of the Option Shares.
Conditions to Delivery of Stock
     , the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer effective as of the Date of Grant.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.4
Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary
     For the 2005-2006 period, each non-employee director of Range Resources Corporation (the ""), other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors (the ""), shall receive the following compensation:
Company
Board
     1. Cash retainer fee of $35,000 per year, payable quarterly.
     2. Meeting fees of $1,000 for each Board meeting or meeting of a committee thereof, attended either in person or by telephone.
     3. Upon re-election to the Board at our annual meeting of stockholders on May 18, 2005, a grant of options to purchase 8,000 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "") under the 2004 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan. The options will have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005, be fully vested on the date of grant and have a term of five years.
Common Stock
     4. Upon a re-election to the Board at our annual meeting of stockholders on May 18, 2005, a grant of 2,500 fully vested shares of unregistered Common Stock or, at a director's election, the cash equivalent (based upon the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005) to be placed in the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Select Employees (the "") for the account of each non-employee director.
Deferred Compensation Plan
     For the 2005-2006 period, the non-employee Chairman of the Board shall receive the following compensation:
     1. $100,000 per year payable quarterly in cash, one-half directly to such director and one-half placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan for such director's account.
     2. Cash retainer fee of $35,000 per year, payable quarterly, to be placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan in for such director's account.
     3. Meeting fees of $1,000 for each Board meeting or meeting of a committee thereof, attended either in person or by telephone.
     4. Upon re-election to the Board at our annual meeting of stockholders on May 18, 2005, a grant of options to purchase 8,000 shares of Common Stock under the 2004 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan. The options will have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005, be fully vested on the date of grant and have a term of five years.
     5. Upon re-election to the Board at our annual meeting of stockholders on May 18, 2005, a grant of 2,500 fully vested shares of unregistered Common Stock or, at such director's election, the cash equivalent (based upon the market price of the Common Stock on May 18, 2005) to be placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan for the account of such director.

 
Exhibit 10.5
     This INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of the ___day of May 2005, by and between Range Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation (including any successors thereto, the ""), and ___("").
Agreement
Company
Indemnitee
     1. Competent and experienced persons are reluctant to serve or to continue to serve corporations as directors, officers, or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance or indemnification (or both) against claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of those corporations.
     2. The current uncertainties relating to the availability of adequate insurance for directors and officers have increased the difficulty for corporations to attract and retain competent and experienced persons.
     3. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has determined that the continuation of present trends in litigation will make it more difficult to attract and retain competent and experienced persons, that this situation is detrimental to the best interests of the Company's equityholders, and that the Company should act to assure its directors and officers that there will be increased certainty of adequate protection in the future.
Board
     4. It is reasonable, prudent, and necessary for the Company to obligate itself contractually to indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in order to induce them to serve or continue to serve the Company.
     5. Indemnitee is willing to serve and continue to serve the Company or its Subsidiaries on the condition that he be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law.
     6. Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, Indemnitee is agreeing to serve or to continue to serve as a director or officer of the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, Indemnitee's agreement to serve or continue to serve as a director or officer of the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries, and the covenants contained in this Agreement, the Company and Indemnitee hereby covenant and agree as follows:
 
     1. .
Certain Definitions
          For purposes of this Agreement:
          (a) : shall mean (i) any Person other than the Company, any Subsidiary, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary or any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company and (ii) members of a group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of which any Person described in clause (i) is a member with respect to the Company's Voting Securities.
Acquiring Person
          (b) : shall mean any Person that directly, or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
          (c) : shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
               (i) Any Acquiring Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 35% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of the Company's common stock (the "Outstanding Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, or (B) any acquisition by any Person pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) of this Section 1(c);
               (ii) A majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election;
               (iii) The stockholders of the Company approve a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition (in one or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another corporation which is consummated (a "Business Combination") (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a Business Combination), in each case, unless, immediately following such Business Combination, (A) individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, upon consummation of such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company, or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related
 
trust) of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 35% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership of the Company existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination;
               (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a liquidation or dissolution); or
               (v) A public announcement or commencement is made of a tender or exchange offer by any Acquiring Person for, or upon completion of which any Acquiring Person would beneficially own, 50% or more of the outstanding Voting Securities of the Company, and the Board approves or fails to oppose that tender or exchange offer in its statements in Schedule 14D-9 under the Exchange Act; provided, that within one year after the occurrence of such event, an event described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Section 1(c) shall have occurred (in which case a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of the occurrence of the event described above in this clause (v)).
          (d) : shall mean any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding (including, without limitation, securities laws actions, suits, and proceedings and also any cross claim or counterclaim in any action, suit, or proceeding), whether civil, criminal, arbitral, administrative, or investigative in nature, or any inquiry or investigation (including discovery), whether conducted by the Company or any other Person, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any action, suit, or proceeding.
Claim
          (e) : shall mean all costs, expenses (including attorneys' and expert witnesses' fees), and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending (including affirmative defenses and counterclaims), being a witness in, or participating in (including on appeal), or preparing to defend, be a witness in, or participate in, any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event.
Expenses
          (f) : shall mean any actual or alleged act, omission, statement, misstatement, event, or occurrence related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, agent, or fiduciary of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent, or fiduciary of any of the Company's parent(s) or Subsidiaries and/or any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust, or other enterprise, or by reason of any actual or alleged thing done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity. For purposes of this Agreement, the Company agrees that Indemnitee's service on behalf of or with respect to any Subsidiary or employee benefits plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed to be at the request of the Company.
Indemnifiable Event
 
          (g) : shall mean all Expenses and all other liabilities, damages (including, without limitation, punitive, exemplary, and the multiplied portion of any damages), judgments, payments, fines, penalties, amounts paid in settlement, and awards paid or incurred that arise out of, or in any way relate to, any Indemnifiable Event.
Indemnifiable Liabilities
          (h) : shall mean any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust or other entity.
Person
          (i) : shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change of Control; (ii) any Person (including the Company) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions that, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control; (iii) any Acquiring Person who is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company, increases his beneficial ownership of such securities by 5% or more over the percentage so owned by that Person on the date hereof; or (iv) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change of Control has occurred.
Potential Change of Control
          (j) : shall mean (i) a member or members of the Board who are not parties to the particular Claim for which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification or (ii) if a Change of Control has occurred and Indemnitee so requests, or if the members of the Board so elect, or if all of the members of the Board are parties to such Claim, Special Counsel.
Reviewing Party
          (k) : shall mean special, independent legal counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), and who has not otherwise performed material services for the Company or for Indemnitee within the last three years (other than as Special Counsel under this Agreement or similar agreements).
Special Counsel
          (l) : shall mean, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the voting power of the Voting Securities is owned, directly or indirectly, by that Person.
Subsidiary
          (m) : any securities or other equity interests that vote generally in the election of directors, in the admission of general partners, or in the selection of any other similar governing body.
Voting Securities
     2. .
Indemnification and Expense Advancement
          (a) The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee and hold Indemnitee harmless to the fullest extent permitted by law, as soon as practicable but in any event no later than 30 days after written demand is presented to the Company, from and against any and all Indemnifiable Liabilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Company under Section 2(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which Special Counsel is involved) that Indemnitee is not permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Any determination under this Section 2(a) shall be made promptly by the Reviewing Party.
 
          (b) If so requested by Indemnitee, the Company shall advance to Indemnitee all reasonable Expenses incurred by Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law (or, if applicable, reimburse Indemnitee for any and all reasonable Expenses incurred by Indemnitee and previously paid by Indemnitee) within ten business days after such request (an ""). The Company shall be obligated from time to time at the request of Indemnitee to make or pay an Expense Advance in advance of the final disposition or conclusion of any Claim. In connection with any request for an Expense Advance, if requested by the Company, Indemnitee or Indemnitee's counsel shall submit an affidavit stating that the Expenses to which the Expense Advances relate are reasonable. Any dispute as to the reasonableness of any Expense shall not delay an Expense Advance by the Company. If, when, and to the extent that the Reviewing Party determines that (i) Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified with respect to a Claim under applicable law or (ii) the amount of the Expense Advance was not reasonable, the Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee and Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the Company without interest (which agreement shall be an unsecured obligation of Indemnitee) for (x) all related Expense Advances theretofore made or paid by the Company in the event that it is determined that indemnification would not be permitted or (y) the excessive portion of any Expense Advances in the event that it is determined that such Expenses Advances were unreasonable, in either case, if and to the extent such reimbursement is required by applicable law; provided, however, that if Indemnitee has commenced legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee could be indemnified under applicable law, or that the Expense Advances were reasonable, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law or that the Expense Advances were unreasonable shall not be binding, and the Company shall be obligated to continue to make Expense Advances, until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed), which determination shall be conclusive and binding. If there has been a Change of Control, the Reviewing Party shall be Special Counsel, if Indemnitee so requests. If there has been no determination by the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee substantively is not permitted to be indemnified in whole or part under applicable law or that any Expense Advances were unreasonable, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any court in the states of Texas, New York or Delaware having subject matter jurisdiction thereof and in which venue is proper seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, and the Company hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding. Any determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and Indemnitee.
Expense Advance
          (c) Nothing in this Agreement, however, shall require the Company to indemnify Indemnitee with respect to any Claim initiated by Indemnitee, other than a Claim solely seeking enforcement of the Company's indemnification obligations to Indemnitee or a Claim authorized by the Board.
     3. . If there is a Potential Change of Control or a Change of Control and if Indemnitee requests in writing that Special Counsel be the Reviewing Party, then Special Counsel shall be the Reviewing Party. In such a case, the Company agrees not to request or seek reimbursement from Indemnitee of any indemnification payment or Expense Advances unless Special Counsel has rendered its written opinion to the Company and Indemnitee that the
Change of Control
 
Company was not or is not permitted under applicable law to indemnify Indemnitee or that such Expense Advances were unreasonable. However, if Indemnitee has commenced legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that such indemnification is permitted under applicable law or that the Expense Advances were reasonable, any determination made by Special Counsel that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law or that the Expense Advances were unreasonable shall not be binding, and the Company shall be obligated to continue to make Expense Advances, until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefore have been exhausted or lapsed), which determination shall be conclusive and binding. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of Special Counsel and to indemnify Special Counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees), claims, liabilities, and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or Special Counsel's engagement pursuant hereto.
     4. . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all costs and expenses (including attorneys' and expert witnesses' fees) and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within two business days of that request) advance those costs and expenses to Indemnitee, that are incurred by Indemnitee if Indemnitee, whether by formal proceedings or through demand and negotiation without formal proceedings: (a) seeks to enforce Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement, (b) seeks to enforce Indemnitee's rights to expense advancement or indemnification under any other agreement or provision of the Company's bylaws, certificate of incorporation or other constituent documents now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events, or (c) seeks recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, in each case regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately prevails; provided that a court of competent jurisdiction has not found Indemnitee's claim for indemnification or expense advancements under the foregoing clauses (a), (b) or (c) to be frivolous, presented for an improper purpose, without evidentiary support, or otherwise sanctionable under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure No. 11 or an analogous rule or law, and provided further, that if a court makes such a finding, Indemnitee shall reimburse the Company for all amounts previously advanced to Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 4. Subject to the provisos contained in the preceding sentence, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company waives any and all rights that it may have to recover its costs and expenses from Indemnitee.
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
     5. . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some, but not all, of Indemnitee's Indemnifiable Liabilities, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnity
     6. .
Contribution
          (a) . To the extent the indemnification provided for under any provision of this Agreement is determined (in the manner hereinabove provided) not to be permitted under applicable law, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall, to the extent permitted by law, contribute to the amount of any and all Indemnifiable Liabilities incurred or paid by Indemnitee for which such indemnification is not permitted. The amount the Company contributes shall be in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of Indemnitee, on the one hand, and of the Company and any and all other parties (including
Contribution Payment
 
officers and directors of the Company other than Indemnitee and other Persons not Affiliated with the Company) who may be at fault (collectively, including the Company, the ""), on the other hand.
Third Parties
          (b) . The relative fault of the Third Parties and the Indemnitee shall be determined (i) by reference to the relative fault of Indemnitee as determined by the court or other governmental agency or (ii) to the extent such court or other governmental agency does not apportion relative fault, by the Reviewing Party after giving effect to, among other things, the relative intent, knowledge, access to information, and opportunity to prevent or correct the relevant events, of each party, and other relevant equitable considerations. The Company and Indemnitee agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 6(b).
Relative Fault
          (c) . The provisions in this Section 6(c) are to be used as guidelines by the Company and Indemnitee in determining the amount to be contributed by the Company to the extent the use of such guidelines is not prohibited by applicable law or by court order.
Contribution Guidelines
               (i) The amount to be contributed by the Company is to be an amount equal to (A) the total Indemnifiable Liabilities incurred with respect to the Indemnifiable Event assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee for which such indemnification is not permitted (the "") minus (B) the (1) the total Indemnifiable Liabilities incurred with respect to the Indemnifiable Event assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee and all Third Parties ("") (2) the relative fault of Indemnitee (expressed as a percentage).
Ineligible Amounts
product of
Total Contribution Amounts
multiplied by
               (ii) If any Third Parties (" shall have settled Claims against them arising by reason of (or in part out of) the same Indemnifiable Event, then: (A) if the Indemnifiable Liabilities assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee take into account the relative fault of the Settled Parties, then the amount to be contributed by the Company is to be an amount equal to the amount by which the Indemnifiable Liabilities assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee exceeds the (1) the sum of Indemnifiable Liabilities assessed against or incurred or paid by the Indemnitee and all Third Parties other than the Settled Parties (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the relative fault of Indemnitee and the denominator of which is the sum of the relative fault of the Third Parties other than the Settled Parties plus the relative fault of Indemnitee (expensed as a percentage), and (B) if the Indemnifiable Liabilities assessed against Indemnitee take into account, in lieu of the relative fault of the Settled Parties, amounts actually paid by the Settled Parties in settlement of such Indemnifiable Event, then the amount that the Company shall be obligated to contribute pursuant to this Section 6 shall be an amount equal to the amount by which the Ineligible Amounts assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee exceed the (1) the relative fault of Indemnitee (expressed as a percentage) (2) the sum of the Indemnified Liabilities assessed against or incurred or paid by the Indemnitee and the Third Parties other than the Settled Parties plus the amounts so paid by the Settled Parties.
Settled Parties")
product of
multiplied by
product of
multiplied by
 
               (iii) The guidelines in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) are to be applied, and adjusted as determined in good faith by a Reviewing Party or a court determining the appropriate amount to be contributed by the Company pursuant to this Section 6, as necessary to result in the Ineligible Amounts for which Indemnitee ultimately is responsible being proportionate to the relative fault of Indemnitee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6, the total amount of contribution provided to Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 6 shall not exceed the actual Ineligible Amounts assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee and Indemnitee shall not be liable for or obligated to pay to any Third Party any contribution amounts solely as a result of this Section 6.
     7. . In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party or otherwise as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified under any provision of this Agreement or to receive contribution pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement, to the extent permitted by law the burden of proof shall be on the Company to establish that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
Burden of Proof
     8. . For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any Claim by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, or an entry of an order of probation prior to judgment shall not create a presumption (other than any presumption arising as a matter of law that the parties may not contractually agree to disregard) that Indemnitee did not meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.
No Presumption
     9. . The rights of Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may have under the Company's bylaws or certificate of incorporation, the Delaware General Corporation Law or otherwise. To the extent that a change in the Delaware General Corporation Law (whether by statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by that change. Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement shall not be diminished by any amendment to the Company's bylaws or certificate of incorporation or of any other agreement or instrument to which Indemnitee is not a party, and shall not diminish any other rights that Indemnitee now or in the future has against the Company.
Non-exclusivity
     10. . Except as otherwise agreed to by the Company and Indemnitee in a written agreement, to the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be covered by that policy or those policies, in accordance with its or their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company director or officer.
Liability Insurance
     11. . No action, lawsuit, or proceeding may be brought against Indemnitee or Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors, or personal or legal representatives, nor may any cause of action be asserted in any such action, lawsuit, or proceeding, by or on behalf of the Company, after the expiration of two years after the statute of limitations commences with respect to Indemnitee's act or omission that gave rise to the action, lawsuit, proceeding, or cause
Period of Limitations
 
of action; provided, however, that, if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such action, lawsuit, proceeding, or cause of action, the shorter period shall govern.
     12. . No supplement, modification, or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless in a writing signed by the party granting the waiver. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall that waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Amendments
     13. . Indemnitee shall not be required to exercise any rights that Indemnitee may have against any other Person (for example, under an insurance policy) before Indemnitee enforces his rights under this Agreement. However, to the extent the Company actually indemnifies Indemnitee or advances him Expenses, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of Indemnitee and shall be entitled to enforce any such rights which Indemnitee may have against third parties. Indemnitee shall assist the Company in enforcing those rights if it pays his costs and expenses of doing so. If Indemnitee is actually indemnified or advanced Expenses by any third party, then, for so long as Indemnitee is not required to disgorge the amounts so received, to that extent the Company shall be relieved of its obligation to indemnify Indemnitee or advance Indemnitee Expenses.
Other Sources
     14. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns (including any direct or indirect successor by merger or consolidation), spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. This Agreement shall continue in effect regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or of any trust, benefit plan or another enterprise at the Company's request.
Binding Effect
     15. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under present or future laws effective during the term hereof, that provision shall be fully severable; this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if that illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision had never comprised a part hereof; and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision or by its severance from this Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of that illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement a provision as similar in terms to the illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid, and enforceable so long as it does not prejudice any other rights of any party under this Agreement.
Severability
     16. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made and to be performed in that state without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
     17. . The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
     18. . Whenever this Agreement requires or permits notice to be given by one party to the other, such notice must be in writing to be effective and shall be deemed delivered and received by the party to whom it is sent upon actual receipt (by any means) of such notice. Receipt of a notice by the Secretary of the Company shall be deemed receipt of such notice by the Company.
Notices
     19. . This Agreement constitutes the complete understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, other than any indemnification and advancement rights that Indemnitee may enjoy under the Company's bylaws, certificate of incorporation or other constituent documents, or the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Complete Agreement
     20. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but in making proof hereof it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
Counterparts
     21. .
Effect on Other Agreements and Rights
THIS AGREEMENT REPLACES AND SUPERCEDES IN ITS ENTIRETY ANY INDEMNIFICATION OR CONTRIBUTIONS AGREEMENT (WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL) ENTERED INTO BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND INDEMNITY PRIOR TO THE DATE HEREOF (A "
PRIOR AGREEMENT
"), WHICH PRIOR AGREEMENT SHALL TERMINATE UPON THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT BY THE COMPANY AND INDEMNITEE WITHOUT ANY FURTHER LIABILITY OF ANY PARTY THEREUNDER; PROVIDED THAT THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT AFFECT ANY RIGHTS THAT INDEMNITY MAY HAVE OR BE DEEMED TO HAVE UNDER THE BYLAWS OR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF THE COMPANY AS IN EFFECT ON THE DATE HEREOF OR AS HEREAFTER AMENDED.
 
     EXECUTED as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 10.6
     The following persons have entered into agreements with the Company as of May 18, 2005 that are substantially identical to the Indemnification Agreement included as Exhibit 10.5 and that differ only in the name of the person.
Name
Robert E. Aikman Charles L. Blackburn Anthony V. Dub V. Richard Eales Allen Finkelson Jonathan S. Linker Kevin S. McCarthy John H. Pinkerton Jeffrey L. Ventura Steven L. Grose Roger S. Manny Herbert A. Newhouse Chad L. Stephens Rodney L. Waller

 
Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
     1. . The purpose of the Range Resources Corporation 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to provide a means through which Range Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its subsidiaries may attract and retain able persons as employees, directors and consultants of the Company and to provide a means whereby those persons upon whom the responsibilities of the successful administration and management of the Company rest, and whose present and potential contributions to the welfare of the Company are of importance, can acquire and maintain stock ownership, or awards the value of which is tied to the performance of the Company's stock, thereby strengthening their concern for the welfare of the Company and their desire to remain in its employ. A further purpose of this Plan is to provide such employees and directors with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to enhance the profitable growth of the Company. Accordingly, this Plan primarily provides for granting Incentive Stock Options, options which do not constitute Incentive Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, Stock Appreciation Rights, Phantom Stock Awards or any combination of the foregoing, as is best suited to the circumstances of the particular individual as provided herein.
Purpose
     2. . For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below, in addition to such terms defined in Section 1 hereof:
Definitions
          (a) "Acquiring Person" means (i) any Person other than the Company, any Subsidiary, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary or any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, and (ii) all members of a group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of which any Person described in clause (i) is a member with respect to the Company's securities.
          (b) "Annual Incentive Award" means a conditional right granted to a Participant under Section 8(c) hereof to receive a cash payment, Stock or other Award, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, after the end of a specified fiscal year.
          (c) "Award" means any Option, SAR (including Limited SAR), Restricted Stock Award, Phantom Stock Award, Stock granted as a bonus or in lieu of another award, Dividend Equivalent, Other Stock-Based Award, Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award, together with any other right or interest granted to a Participant under this Plan.
          (d) "Beneficiary" means one or more persons, trusts or other entities which have been designated by a Participant in his or her most recent written beneficiary designation filed with the Committee to receive the benefits specified under this Plan upon such Participant's death or to which Awards or other rights are transferred if and to the extent permitted under Section 10(a) hereof. If, upon a Participant's death, there is no designated Beneficiary or surviving designated Beneficiary, then the term Beneficiary means the persons, trusts or other entities entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive such benefits.
 
          (e) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act and any successor to such Rule.
          (f) "Board" means the Company's Board of Directors.
          (g) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the state of Texas are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
          (h) "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
               (i) Any Acquiring Person becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 35% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Stock (the "Outstanding Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, or (B) any acquisition by any Person pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) of this Section 2(h);
               (ii) A majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election;
               (iii) The stockholders of the Company approve a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition (in one or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another corporation which is consummated (a "Business Combination") (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a Business Combination), in each case, unless, immediately following such Business Combination, (A) individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, upon consummation of such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company, or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 35% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership of the Company existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were
 
members of the Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination;
               (iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company (or, if no such approval is required, the consummation of such a liquidation or dissolution); or
               (v) A public announcement or commencement is made of a tender or exchange offer by any Acquiring Person for, or upon completion of which any Acquiring Person would beneficially own, 50% or more of the outstanding Voting Securities of the Company, and the Board approves or fails to oppose that tender or exchange offer in its statements in Schedule 14D-9 under the Exchange Act; provided, that, within one year after the occurrence of such event, an event described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this Section 2(h) shall have occurred (in which case a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of the occurrence of the event described above in this clause (v)).
          (i) "Change in Control Price" means the amount calculated in accordance with Section 9 of this Plan.
          (j) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including regulations thereunder and successor provisions and regulations thereto.
          (k) "Committee" means a committee of two or more directors designated by the Board to administer this Plan; provided, however, that, unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Committee shall consist solely of two or more directors, each of whom shall be (i) a "nonemployee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, and (ii) an "outside director" as defined under section 162(m) of the Code, unless administration of this Plan by "outside directors" is not then required in order to qualify for tax deductibility under section 162(m) of the Code.
          (l) "Covered Employee" means an Eligible Person who is a Covered Employee as specified in Section 8(e) of this Plan.
          (m) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(g), to receive cash, Stock, other Awards or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments.
          (n) "Effective Date" means May 18, 2005.
          (o) "Eligible Person" means all officers and employees of the Company or of any Subsidiary, and other persons who provide services to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including directors of the Company. An employee on leave of absence may be considered as still in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary for purposes of eligibility for participation in this Plan.
          (p) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including rules thereunder and successor provisions and rules thereto.
 
          (q) "Executive Officer" means an executive officer of the Company as defined under the Exchange Act.
          (r) "Fair Market Value" means, for a particular day:
               (i) if shares of Stock of the same class are listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on any national or regional securities exchange at the date of determining the Fair Market Value, then the last reported sale price, regular way, on the composite tape of that exchange on that business day or, if no such sale takes place on that business day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on that securities exchange or, if no such closing prices are available for that day, the last reported sale price, regular way, on the composite tape of that exchange on the last business day before the date in question; or
               (ii) if shares of Stock of the same class are not listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges as provided in subparagraph (i) and if sales prices for shares of Stock of the same class in the over-the-counter market are reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations, Inc. ("NASDAQ") National Market System as of the date of determining the Fair Market Value, then the last reported sales price so reported on that business day or, if no such sale takes place on that business day, the average of the high bid and low asked prices so reported or, if no such prices are available for that day, the last reported sale price so reported on the last business day before the date in question; or
               (iii) if shares of Stock of the same class are not listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges as provided in subparagraph (i) and sales prices for shares of Stock of the same class are not reported by the NASDAQ National Market System (or a similar system then in use) as provided in subparagraph (ii), and if bid and asked prices for shares of Stock of the same class in the over-the-counter market are reported by NASDAQ (or, if not so reported, by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated) as of the date of determining the Fair Market Value, then the average of the high bid and low asked prices on that business day or, if no such prices are available for that day, the average of the high bid and low asked prices on the last business day before the date in question; or
               (iv) if shares of Stock of the same class are not listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges as provided in subparagraph (i) and sales prices or bid and asked prices therefor are not reported by NASDAQ (or the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated) as provided in subparagraph (ii) or subparagraph (iii) as of the date of determining the Fair Market Value, then the value determined in good faith by the Committee, which determination shall be conclusive for all purposes; or
               (v) if shares of Stock of the same class are listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges as provided in subparagraph (i) or sales prices or bid and asked prices therefor are reported by NASDAQ (or the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated) as provided in subparagraph (ii) or subparagraph (iii) as of the date of determining the Fair Market Value, but the volume of trading is so low that the Board of Directors determines in good faith that such prices are not indicative of the fair value of the Stock, then the value determined in good faith by
 
the Committee, which determination shall be conclusive for all purposes notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (i), (ii) or (iii).
For purposes of valuing Incentive Stock Options, the Fair Market Value of Stock shall be determined without regard to any restriction other than one that, by its terms, will never lapse.
          (s) "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means any Option intended to be and designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
          (t) "Limited SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Section 6(c) hereof.
          (u) "Option" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(b) hereof, to purchase Stock or other Awards at a specified price during specified time periods.
          (v) "Other Stock-Based Awards" means Awards granted to a Participant under Section 6(h) hereof.
          (w) "Participant" means a person who has been granted an Award under this Plan which remains outstanding, including a person who is no longer an Eligible Person.
          (x) "Performance Award" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 8 hereof, to receive Awards based upon performance criteria specified by the Committee.
          (y) "Person" shall mean any individual, group, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, association, trust, or other entity or organization.
          (z) "Phantom Stock" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(e) hereof, to receive Stock, cash or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period.
          (aa) "Qualified Member" means a member of the Committee who is a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) and an "outside director" within the meaning of regulation 1.162-27 under section 162(m) of the Code.
          (bb) "Restricted Stock" means Stock granted to a Participant under Section 6(d) hereof, that is subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture.
          (cc) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 16 of the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect and applicable to this Plan and Participants.
          (dd) "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor law, as it may be amended from time to time.
 
          (ee) "Stock" means the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and such other securities as may be substituted (or resubstituted) for Stock pursuant to Section 9.
          (ff) "Stock Appreciation Rights" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Section 6(c) hereof.
          (gg) "Subsidiary" means any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.
          (hh) "Voting Securities" means with respect to any Person any securities or interests that vote generally in the election of directors, in the admission of general partners or members, or in the selection of any other similar governing body of such Person.
     3. .
Administration
          (a) . This Plan shall be administered by the Committee except to the extent the Board elects, in order to comply with Rule 16b-3 or for any other reason, to administer this Plan, in which case references herein to the "Committee" shall be deemed to include references to the "Board." Subject to the express provisions of the Plan and Rule 16b-3, the Committee shall have the authority, in its sole and absolute discretion, to (i) adopt, amend, and rescind administrative and interpretive rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (ii) determine the Eligible Persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted; (iii) determine the amount of cash and the number of shares of Stock, Stock Appreciation Rights, Phantom Stock Rights, or Restricted Stock Awards, or any combination thereof, that shall be the subject of each Award; (iv) determine the terms and provisions of each Award agreement (which need not be identical), including provisions defining or otherwise relating to (A) the term and the period or periods and extent of exercisability of the Options, (B) the extent to which the transferability of shares of Stock issued or transferred pursuant to any Award is restricted, (C) the effect of termination of employment of a Participant on the Award, and (D) the effect of approved leaves of absence (consistent with any applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue Service); (v) accelerate the time of exercisability of any Option that has been granted; (vi) construe the respective Award agreements and the Plan; (vii) make determinations of the Fair Market Value of the Stock pursuant to the Plan; (viii) delegate its duties under the Plan to such agents as it may appoint from time to time, provided that the Committee may not delegate its duties with respect to making Awards to, or otherwise with respect to Awards granted to, Eligible Persons who are subject to section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or section 162(m) of the Code; (ix) subject to ratification by the Board, terminate, modify, or amend the Plan; and (x) make all other determinations, perform all other acts, and exercise all other powers and authority necessary or advisable for administering the Plan, including the delegation of those ministerial acts and responsibilities as the Committee deems appropriate. Subject to Rule 16b-3 and section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, in any Award, or in any Award agreement in the manner and to the extent it deems necessary or desirable to carry the Plan into effect, and the Committee shall be the sole and final judge of that necessity or desirability. The determinations of the Committee on the matters referred to in this Section 3(a) shall be final and conclusive.
Authority of the Committee
 
          (b) . At any time that a member of the Committee is not a Qualified Member, any action of the Committee relating to an Award granted or to be granted to a Participant who is then subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company, or relating to an Award intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder, may be taken either (i) by a subcommittee, designated by the Committee, composed solely of two or more Qualified Members, or (ii) by the Committee but with each such member who is not a Qualified Member abstaining or recusing himself or herself from such action; provided, however, that, upon such abstention or recusal, the Committee remains composed solely of two or more Qualified Members. Such action, authorized by such a subcommittee or by the Committee upon the abstention or recusal of such non-Qualified Member(s), shall be the action of the Committee for purposes of this Plan. Any action of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its subsidiaries, stockholders, Participants, Beneficiaries, and transferees under Section 10(a) hereof or other persons claiming rights from or through a Participant. The express grant of any specific power to the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee. The Committee may delegate to officers or managers of the Company or any Subsidiary, or committees thereof, the authority, subject to such terms as the Committee shall determine, to perform such functions, including administrative functions, as the Committee may determine, to the extent that such delegation will not result in the loss of an exemption under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) for Awards granted to Participants subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company and will not cause Awards intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code to fail to so qualify. The Committee may appoint agents to assist it in administering this Plan.
Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority
          (c) . The Committee and each member thereof shall be entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to him or her by any officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, the Company's legal counsel, independent auditors, consultants or any other agents assisting in the administration of this Plan. Members of the Committee and any officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary acting at the direction or on behalf of the Committee shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to this Plan, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be indemnified and held harmless by the Company with respect to any such action or determination.
Limitation of Liability
     4. .
Stock Subject to Plan
          (a) . Subject to adjustment in a manner consistent with any adjustment made pursuant to Section 9, the total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under this Plan shall not exceed a number equal to (i) 9,250,000 shares of Stock, less (ii) the number of shares of the Stock issued under the Range Resources Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "1999 Plan") prior to the Effective Date, and shares of Stock issuable pursuant to awards outstanding under the 1999 Plan as of the Effective Date, plus (iii) shares that become available for delivery under the 1999 Plan after the Effective Date with respect to awards that lapse or are terminated and with respect to which shares are not issued; provided, however, in the event the Plan is not
Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery
 
approved by the stockholders of the Company, the shares otherwise available under the Plan shall continue to be available under the 1999 Plan.
          (b) . No Award may be granted if (i)(A) the number of shares of Stock to be delivered in connection with such Award or, (B) in the case of an Award relating to shares of Stock but settleable only in cash (such as cash-only SARs), the number of shares to which such Award relates exceeds (ii) the number of shares of Stock remaining available under this Plan minus the number of shares of Stock issuable in settlement of or relating to then-outstanding Awards. The Committee may adopt reasonable counting procedures to ensure appropriate counting, avoid double counting (as, for example, in the case of tandem or substitute awards) and make adjustments if the number of shares of Stock actually delivered differs from the number of shares previously counted in connection with an Award.
Application of Limitation to Grants of Awards
          (c) . Shares of Stock subject to an Award under this Plan that expire or are canceled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise terminated without a delivery of shares to the Participant, including (i) the number of shares withheld in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or taxes relating to Awards, and (ii) the number of shares surrendered in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or taxes relating to any Award, will again be available for Awards under this Plan, except that if any such shares could not again be available for Awards to a particular Participant under any applicable law or regulation, such shares shall be available exclusively for Awards to Participants who are not subject to such limitation.
Availability of Shares Not Delivered under Awards
          (d) . The shares to be delivered under the Plan shall be made available from (i) authorized but unissued shares of Stock, (ii) Stock held in the treasury of the Company, or (iii) previously issued shares of Stock reacquired by the Company, including shares purchased on the open market, in each situation as the Board or the Committee may determine from time to time at its sole option.
Stock Offered
     5. . Awards may be granted under this Plan only to Eligible Persons. In any fiscal year, during any part of which this Plan is in effect, a Covered Employee may not be granted Awards, the value of which is not based on Stock, equal to more than $2,500,000.
Eligibility; Per Person Award Limitations
     6. .
Specific Terms of Awards
          (a) . Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter (subject to Section 10(c)), such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of employment by the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his or her Award. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion to accelerate, waive or modify, at any time, any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under this Plan; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have any discretion to accelerate, waive or modify any term or condition of an Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of
General
 
section 162(m) of the Code if such discretion would cause the Award to not so qualify. Except in cases in which the Committee is authorized to require other forms of consideration under this Plan, or to the extent other forms of consideration must be paid to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, no consideration other than services may be required for the grant (but not the exercise) of any Award.
          (b) . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Options
               (i) . Each Option agreement shall state the exercise price per share of Stock (the "Exercise Price"); provided, however, that the Exercise Price per share of Stock subject to an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the greater of (A) the par value per share of the Stock or (B) 100% of the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the date of grant of the Option or in the case of an individual who owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation or its parent or any Subsidiary 110% of the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the date of grant, and the exercise price per share of Stock subject to an Option other than an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the par value per share of the Stock (but may be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of the Stock on the date of grant).
Exercise Price
               (ii) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which or the circumstances under which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the methods by which such exercise price may be paid or deemed to be paid, the form of such payment, including without limitation cash, Stock, other Awards or awards granted under other plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, or other property (including notes or other contractual obligations of Participants to make payment on a deferred basis), and the methods by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, including, but not limited to, the delivery of Restricted Stock subject to Section 6(d). In the case of an exercise whereby the Exercise Price is paid with Stock, such Stock shall be valued as of the date of exercise.
Time and Method of Exercise
               (iii) . The terms of any ISO granted under this Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions of section 422 of the Code. Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no term of this Plan relating to ISOs (including any SAR in tandem therewith) shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under this Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify either this Plan or any ISO under section 422 of the Code, unless the Participant has first requested the change that will result in such disqualification. ISOs shall not be granted more than ten years after the earlier of the adoption of this Plan or the approval of this Plan by the Company's stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock subject to an ISO and the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of stock of any parent or Subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of sections 424(e) and (f) of the Code) subject to any other incentive stock option (within the meaning of section 422 of the Code)) of the Company or a parent or Subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of sections 424(e) and (f) of the Code) that first becomes purchasable by a Participant in any calendar year may not (with respect to that Participant) exceed $100,000, or such other amount as may be prescribed under section 422 of the Code or applicable regulations
ISOs
 
or rulings from time to time. As used in the previous sentence, Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the date the incentive stock options is granted. Failure to comply with this provision shall not impair the enforceability or exercisability of any Option, but shall cause the excess amount of shares to be reclassified in accordance with the Code.
          (c) . The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Stock Appreciation Rights
               (i) . An SAR shall confer on the Participant to whom it is granted a right to receive, upon exercise or settlement thereof, the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise or settlement (or, in the case of a "Limited SAR," the Fair Market Value determined by reference to the Change in Control Price, as defined under Section 2(h) hereof) over (B) the grant price of the SAR as determined by the Committee.
Right to Payment
               (ii) . A Stock Appreciation Right granted pursuant to an Option shall entitle a Participant, upon exercise or settlement, to surrender that Option or any portion thereof, to the extent unexercised, and to receive payment of an amount computed pursuant to Subsection 6(c)(ii)(B). That Option shall then cease to be exercisable or settleable to the extent surrendered. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in connection with an Option shall be subject to the terms of the Award agreement governing the Option, which shall comply with the following provisions in addition to those applicable to Options:
Rights Related to Options
                    (A) A Stock Appreciation Right granted in connection with an Option shall be exercisable or settleable only at such time or times and only to the extent that the related Option is exercisable and shall not be transferable except to the extent that the related Option is transferable.
                    (B) Upon the exercise or settlement of a Stock Appreciation Right related to an Option, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company of an amount determined by multiplying:
                         (1) the difference obtained by subtracting the exercise price of a share of Stock specified in the related Option from the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise or settlement of the Stock Appreciation Right, by
                         (2) the number of shares as to which that Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised or settled.
               (iii) . A Stock Appreciation Right granted independent of an Option shall be exercisable or settleable as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award agreement governing the Stock Appreciation Right, which Award agreement shall comply with the following provisions:
Right Without Option
                    (A) Each Award agreement shall state the total number of shares of Stock to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates.
 
                    (B) Each Award agreement shall state the time the Stock Appreciation Right will be settled or the time or periods in which the right to exercise the Stock Appreciation Right or a portion thereof shall vest and the number of shares of Stock for which the right to exercise the Stock Appreciation Right shall vest at each such time or period.
                    (C) Each Award agreement shall state the date at which the Stock Appreciation Rights shall expire if not previously exercised or settled.
                    (D) Each Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle a participant, upon exercise or settlement thereof, to receive payment of an amount determined by multiplying:
                         (1) the difference obtained by subtracting the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right from the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise or settlement of that Stock Appreciation Right, by
                         (2) the number of shares as to which the Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised or settled.
               (iv) . The Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter, the time or times at which and the circumstances under which an SAR may be exercised or settled in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the method of exercise, method of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, method by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, whether or not an SAR shall be in tandem or in combination with any other Award, and any other terms and conditions of any SAR. Limited SARs that may only be exercised or settled in connection with a Change in Control or other event as specified by the Committee may be granted on such terms, not inconsistent with this Section 6(c), as the Committee may determine. SARs and Limited SARs may be either freestanding or in tandem with other Awards.
Terms
          (d) . The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock
               (i) . Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability, risk of forfeiture and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine at the date of grant or thereafter. Except to the extent restricted under the terms of this Plan and any Award agreement relating to the Restricted Stock, a Participant granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote the Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends thereon (subject to any mandatory reinvestment or other requirement imposed by the Committee). During the restricted period applicable to the Restricted Stock, the
Grant and Restrictions
 
Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, margined or otherwise encumbered by the Participant.
               (ii) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock that is at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company; provided that the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock shall be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock.
Forfeiture
               (iii) . Restricted Stock granted under this Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the Committee may require that such certificates bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, that the Company retain physical possession of the certificates, and that the Participant deliver a stock power to the Company, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock.
Certificates for Stock
               (iv) . As a condition to the grant of an Award of Restricted Stock, the Committee may require or permit a Participant to elect that any cash dividends paid on a share of Restricted Stock be automatically reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock or applied to the purchase of additional Awards under this Plan. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Stock distributed in connection with a Stock split or Stock dividend, and other property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock or other property has been distributed.
Dividends and Splits
          (e) . The Committee is authorized to grant Phantom Stock to Participants, which are rights to receive Stock, cash, or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Phantom Stock
               (i) . Satisfaction of an Award of Phantom Stock shall occur upon expiration of the deferral period specified for such Phantom Stock by the Committee (or, if permitted by the Committee, as elected by the Participant). In addition, Phantom Stock shall be subject to such restrictions (which may include a risk of forfeiture) as the Committee may impose, if any, which restrictions may lapse at the expiration of the deferral period or at earlier specified times (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), separately or in combination, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine. Phantom Stock may be satisfied by delivery of Stock, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the specified number of shares of Stock covered by the Phantom Stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee at the date of grant or thereafter.
Award and Restrictions
               (ii) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of employment during the applicable deferral period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply (as provided in the Award agreement evidencing the Phantom
Forfeiture
 
Stock), all Phantom Stock that is at that time subject to deferral (other than a deferral at the election of the Participant) shall be forfeited; provided that the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Phantom Stock shall be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Phantom Stock.
               (iii) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at date of grant, Dividend Equivalents on the specified number of shares of Stock covered by an Award of Phantom Stock shall be either (A) paid with respect to such Phantom Stock on the dividend payment date in cash or in shares of unrestricted Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, or (B) deferred with respect to such Phantom Stock and the amount or value thereof automatically deemed reinvested in additional Phantom Stock, other Awards or other investment vehicles, as the Committee shall determine or permit the Participant to elect.
Dividend Equivalents
          (f) . The Committee is authorized to grant Stock as a bonus, or to grant Stock or other Awards in lieu of obligations to pay cash or deliver other property under this Plan or under other plans or compensatory arrangements, provided that, in the case of Participants subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act, the amount of such grants remains within the discretion of the Committee to the extent necessary to ensure that acquisitions of Stock or other Awards are exempt from liability under section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Stock or Awards granted hereunder shall be subject to such other terms as shall be determined by the Committee. In the case of any grant of Stock to an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary in lieu of salary or other cash compensation, the number of shares granted in place of such compensation shall be reasonable, as determined by the Committee.
Bonus Stock and Awards in Lieu of Obligations
          (g) . The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to a Participant, entitling the Participant to receive cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection with another Award. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or distributed when accrued or shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Stock, Awards, or other investment vehicles, and subject to such restrictions on transferability and risks of forfeiture, as the Committee may specify.
Dividend Equivalents
          (h) . The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of this Plan, including without limitation convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Stock, purchase rights for Stock, Awards with value and payment contingent upon performance of the Company or any other factors designated by the Committee, and Awards valued by reference to the book value of Stock or the value of securities of or the performance of specified subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Stock delivered pursuant to an Award in the nature of a purchase right granted under this Section
Other Awards
 
6(h) shall be purchased for such consideration, paid for at such times, by such methods, and in such forms, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, as the Committee shall determine. Cash awards, as an element of or supplement to any other Award under this Plan, may also be granted pursuant to this Section 6(h). In addition, the Committee may grant Performance Awards and Annual Incentive Awards pursuant to Section 8 hereof that are not necessarily denominated, payable, or valued in or otherwise related to Stock.
     7. .
Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards
          (a) . Awards granted under this Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any Subsidiary, or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, the Committee shall not grant Options with reload features. Such additional, tandem and substitute or exchange Awards may be granted at any time. If an Award is granted in substitution or exchange for another Award, the Committee shall require the surrender of such other Award in consideration for the grant of the new Award. In addition, Awards may be granted in lieu of cash compensation, including in lieu of cash amounts payable under other plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, in which the value of Stock subject to the Award is equivalent in value to the cash compensation (for example, Phantom Stock or Restricted Stock), or in which the exercise price, grant price or purchase price of the Award in the nature of a right that may be exercised is equal to the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock minus the value of the cash compensation surrendered (for example, Options granted with an exercise price "discounted" by the amount of the cash compensation surrendered).
Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem, and Substitute Awards
          (b) . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee; provided that in no event shall the term of any Option or SAR exceed a period of ten years (or such shorter term as may be required in respect of an ISO under section 422 of the Code).
Term of Awards
          (c) . Subject to the terms of this Plan and any applicable Award agreement, payments to be made by the Company or a Subsidiary upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine, including without limitation cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. The settlement of any Award may be accelerated, and cash paid in lieu of Stock in connection with such settlement, in the discretion of the Committee or upon occurrence of one or more specified events (in addition to a Change in Control). Installment or deferred payments may be required by the Committee (subject to Section 10(c) of this Plan, including the consent provisions thereof in the case of any deferral of an outstanding Award not provided for in the original Award agreement) or permitted at the election of the Participant on terms and conditions established by the Committee. Payments may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents or other amounts in respect of installment or deferred payments denominated in Stock. Any such deferral shall only
Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals
 
be allowed as is provided in a separate deferred compensation plan adopted by the Company. This Plan shall not constitute an "employee benefit plan" for purposes of section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
          (d) . It is the intent of the Company that the grant of any Awards to or other transaction by a Participant who is subject to section 16 of the Exchange Act shall be exempt from section 16 pursuant to an applicable exemption (except for transactions acknowledged in writing to be non-exempt by such Participant). Accordingly, if any provision of this Plan or any Award agreement does not comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 as then applicable to any such transaction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 so that such Participant shall avoid liability under section 16(b).
Exemptions from Section 16(b) Liability
          (e) . Each Participant to whom an Award is granted under this Plan may be required to agree in writing as a condition to the granting of such Award not to engage in conduct in competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries for a period after the termination of such Participant's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries as determined by the Committee.
Non-Competition Agreement
     8. .
Performance and Annual Incentive Awards
          (a) . The right of a Participant to exercise or receive a grant or settlement of any Award, and the timing thereof, may be subject to such performance conditions as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and other measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing any performance conditions, and may exercise its discretion to reduce or increase the amounts payable under any Award subject to performance conditions, except as limited under Sections 8(b) and 8(c) hereof in the case of a Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code.
Performance Conditions
          (b) . If the Committee determines that a Performance Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code, the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Award may be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 8(b).
Performance Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees
               (i) . The performance goals for such Performance Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria or individual performance criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 8(b). Performance goals shall be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder (including Treasury Regulation 1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain." The Committee may determine that such Performance Awards shall be granted, exercised, and/or settled upon achievement of any one performance goal or that two or more of the performance
Performance Goals Generally
 
goals must be achieved as a condition to grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Awards. Performance goals may differ for Performance Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
               (ii) .
Business and Individual Performance Criteria
                    (A) . One or more of the following business criteria for the Company, on a consolidated basis, and/or for specified subsidiaries or business or geographical units of the Company (except with respect to the total stockholder return and earnings per share criteria), shall be used by the Committee in establishing performance goals for such Performance Awards: (1) earnings per share; (2) increase in revenues; (3) increase in cash flow; (4) increase in cash flow return; (5) return on net assets, return on assets, return on investment, return on capital, or return on equity; (6) economic value added; (7) operating margin or contribution margin; (8) net income; net income per share; pretax earnings; pretax earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization, and exploration expense; pretax operating earnings after interest expense and before incentives, service fees, and extraordinary or special items; or operating income; (9) total stockholder return; (10) debt reduction; (11) finding and development costs; (12) production growth; or production growth per share; (13) cash flow; or cash flow per share; (14) reserve replacement; and (15) any of the above goals determined on an absolute or relative basis or as compared to the performance of a published or special index deemed applicable by the Committee including, but not limited to, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index or a group of comparable companies. One or more of the foregoing business criteria shall also be exclusively used in establishing performance goals for Annual Incentive Awards granted to a Covered Employee under Section 8(c) hereof.
Business Criteria
                    (B) . The grant, exercise and/or settlement of Performance Awards may also be contingent upon individual performance goals established by the Committee. If required for compliance with section 162(m) of the Code, such criteria shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company.
Individual Performance Criteria
               (iii) . Achievement of performance goals in respect of such Performance Awards shall be measured over a performance period of up to ten years, as specified by the Committee. Performance goals shall be established not later than 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such Performance Awards, or at such other date as may be required or permitted for "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code.
Performance Period; Timing for Establishing Performance Goals
               (iv) . The Committee may establish a Performance Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Company in connection with Performance Awards. The amount of such Performance Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 8(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Performance Award pool as a percentage of any
Performance Award Pool
 
of such criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount which need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such criteria.
               (v) . After the end of each performance period, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of (A) the Performance Award pool, and the maximum amount of potential Performance Award payable to each Participant in the Performance Award pool, or (B) the amount of potential Performance Award otherwise payable to each Participant. Settlement of such Performance Awards shall be in cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, in the discretion of the Committee. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Performance Awards, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount payable to a Covered Employee in respect of a Performance Award subject to this Section 8(b). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of Performance Awards.
Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms
          (c) . If the Committee determines that an Annual Incentive Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code, the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award shall be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 8(c).
Annual Incentive Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees
               (i) . The Committee may establish an Annual Incentive Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Company in connection with Annual Incentive Awards. The amount of such Annual Incentive Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 8(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Annual Incentive Award pool as a percentage of any of such business criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount which need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such business criteria.
Annual Incentive Award Pool
               (ii) . Not later than the end of the 90th day of each fiscal year, or at such other date as may be required or permitted in the case of Awards intended to be "performance-based compensation" under section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall determine the Eligible Persons who will potentially receive Annual Incentive Awards, and the amounts potentially payable thereunder, for that fiscal year, either out of an Annual Incentive Award pool established by such date under Section 8(c)(i) hereof or as individual Annual Incentive Awards. In the case of individual Annual Incentive Awards intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code, the amount potentially payable shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 8(b)(ii) hereof in the given performance year, as specified by the Committee; in other cases, such amount shall be based on such criteria as shall be established by the Committee. In all cases, the maximum Annual Incentive Award of any Participant shall be subject to the limitation set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Potential Annual Incentive Awards
 
               (iii) . After the end of each fiscal year, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of (A) the Annual Incentive Award pool, and the maximum amount of potential Annual Incentive Award payable to each Participant in the Annual Incentive Award pool, or (B) the amount of potential Annual Incentive Award otherwise payable to each Participant. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the amount payable to any Participant as a final Annual Incentive Award shall be increased or reduced from the amount of his or her potential Annual Incentive Award, including a determination to make no final Award whatsoever, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount in the case of an Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which an Annual Incentive Award shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of a fiscal year or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award.
Payout of Annual Incentive Awards
          (d) . All determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance goals, the amount of any Performance Award pool or potential individual Performance Awards and as to the achievement of performance goals relating to Performance Awards under Section 8(b), and the amount of any Annual Incentive Award pool or potential individual Annual Incentive Awards and the amount of final Annual Incentive Awards under Section 8(c), shall be made in writing in the case of any Award intended to qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee may not delegate any responsibility relating to such Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards.
Written Determinations
          (e) . It is the intent of the Company that Performance Awards and Annual Incentive Awards under Sections 8(b) and 8(c) hereof granted to persons who are designated by the Committee as likely to be Covered Employees within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder (including Treasury Regulation 1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto) shall, if so designated by the Committee, constitute "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the terms of Sections 8(b), (c), (d) and (e), including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with section 162(m) of the Code and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term Covered Employee as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee, at the time of grant of Performance Awards or an Annual Incentive Award, who is likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to that fiscal year. If any provision of this Plan as in effect on the date of adoption or any agreements relating to Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards that are designated as intended to comply with section 162(m) of the Code does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Status of Section 8(b) and Section 8(c) Awards under Section 162(m) of the Code
     9. .
Recapitalization or Reorganization
          (a) . The existence of this Plan and the Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization,
Existence of Plans and Awards
 
reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of debt or equity securities ahead of or affecting Stock or the rights thereof, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding.
          (b) . The terms of an Award and the number of shares of Stock authorized pursuant to Section 4 for issuance under the Plan shall be subject to adjustment from time to time, in accordance with the following provisions:
Subdivision or Consolidation of Shares
               (i) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall subdivide as a whole (by reclassification, by a Stock split, by the issuance of a distribution on Stock payable in Stock, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a greater number of shares of Stock, then (A) the maximum number of shares of Stock available for the Plan as provided in Section 4 shall be increased proportionately, and the kind of shares or other securities available for the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted, (B) the number of shares of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) that may be acquired under any Award shall be increased proportionately, and (C) the price (including the exercise price) for each share of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) subject to then outstanding Awards shall be reduced proportionately, without changing the aggregate purchase price or value as to which outstanding Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions.
               (ii) If at any time, or from time to time, the Company shall consolidate as a whole (by reclassification, reverse Stock split, or otherwise) the number of shares of Stock then outstanding into a lesser number of shares of Stock, (A) the maximum number of shares of Stock available for the Plan as provided in Section 4 shall be decreased proportionately, and the kind of shares or other securities available for the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted, (B) the number of shares of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) that may be acquired under any Award shall be decreased proportionately, and (C) the price (including the exercise price) for each share of Stock (or other kind of shares or securities) subject to then outstanding Awards shall be increased proportionately, without changing the aggregate purchase price or value as to which outstanding Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions.
               (iii) Whenever the number of shares of Stock subject to outstanding Awards and the price for each share of Stock subject to outstanding Awards are required to be adjusted as provided in this Section 9(b), the Committee shall promptly prepare a notice setting forth, in reasonable detail, the event requiring adjustment, the amount of the adjustment, the method by which such adjustment was calculated, and the change in price and the number of shares of Stock, other securities, cash, or property purchasable subject to each Award after giving effect to the adjustments. The Committee shall promptly give each Participant such a notice.
               (iv) Adjustments under Subsections 9(b)(i) and (ii) shall be made by the Committee, and its determination as to what adjustments shall be made and the extent thereof shall be final, binding, and conclusive. No fractional interest shall be issued under the Plan on account of any such adjustments.
 
          (c) . If the Company recapitalizes, reclassifies its capital stock, or otherwise changes its capital structure (a "recapitalization"), the number and class of shares of Stock covered by an Option theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Option shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of stock and securities to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the recapitalization if, immediately prior to the recapitalization, the holder had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Stock then covered by such Option and the share limitations provided in Sections 4 and 5 shall be adjusted in a manner consistent with the recapitalization. Upon a Change in Control the Committee, acting in its sole discretion without the consent or approval of any holder, shall effect one or more of the following alternatives, which may vary among individual holders and which may vary among Options held by any individual holder: (1) accelerate the time at which Options then outstanding may be exercised so that such Options may be exercised in full for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Change in Control) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all unexercised Options and all rights of holders thereunder shall terminate, (2) require the mandatory surrender to the Company by selected holders of some or all of the outstanding Options held by such holders (irrespective of whether such Options are then exercisable under the provisions of this Plan) as of a date, before or after such Change in Control, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Options and pay to each holder an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the amount calculated in Section 9(d) (the "Change in Control Price") of the shares subject to such Option over the exercise price(s) under such Options for such shares, (3) provide that the number and class of shares of Stock covered by an Award theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Award shall thereafter cover the number and class of shares of Stock or other securities or property (including, without limitation, cash) to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement of merger, consolidation, sale of assets, or dissolution, if the holder had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Stock covered by the Award, or (4) make such adjustments to Options then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Change in Control (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole discretion that no adjustment is necessary to Options then outstanding).
Corporate Restructuring
          (d) . The "Change in Control Price" shall equal the amount determined in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v), whichever is applicable, as follows: (i) the per share price offered to holders of the same class of Stock of the Company in any merger or consolidation, (ii) the per share value of the Stock immediately before the Change in Control (without regard to assets sold in the Change in Control and assuming the Company has received the consideration paid for the assets) in the case of a sale of the assets, (iii) the amount distributed per share of Stock in a dissolution transaction, (iv) the price per share offered to holders of the same class of Stock of the Company in any tender offer or exchange offer whereby a Change in Control takes place, or (v) if such Change in Control occurs other than pursuant to a tender or exchange offer, the fair market value per share of the shares into which such Options being surrendered are exercisable, as determined by the Committee as of the date determined by the Committee to be the date of cancellation and surrender of such Options. In the event that the consideration offered to stockholders of the Company in any transaction described in this Section 9(d) or Section 9(c) above consists of anything other than cash, the Committee shall determine the fair cash equivalent of the portion of the consideration offered which is other than cash.
Change in Control Price
 
          (e) . In the event of changes in the outstanding Stock by reason of recapitalization, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations, combinations, exchanges or other relevant changes in capitalization occurring after the date of the grant of any Award and not otherwise provided for by this Section 9, any outstanding Awards and any agreements evidencing such Awards shall be subject to adjustment by the Committee at its discretion as to the number and price of shares of Stock or other consideration subject to such Awards. In the event of any such change in the outstanding Stock, the aggregate number of shares available under this Plan may be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive.
Non-Option Awards
          (f) . Except as hereinbefore expressly provided, the issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash, property, labor or services, upon direct sale, upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, and in any case whether or not for fair value, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Stock subject to Awards theretofore granted or the purchase price per share, if applicable.
Additional Issuances
          (g) . Plan provisions to the contrary notwithstanding, with respect to any Restricted Stock Awards outstanding at the time a Change in Control as described in Section 2(g) occurs, the Committee may, in its discretion and as of a date determined by the Committee, fully vest any or all Stock awarded to the holder pursuant to such Restricted Stock Award and then outstanding and, upon such vesting, all restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock Award shall terminate as of such date. Any action by the Committee pursuant to this Section 9(g) may vary among individual holders and may vary among the Restricted Stock Awards held by any individual holder.
Restricted Stock Awards
     10. .
General Provisions
          (a) .
Transferability
               (i) . The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to transfer all or any portion of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Phantom Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award (if such Restricted Stock Award does not require the transfer of consideration by the Participant or the holder other than usual and customary service) after the Company's initial registration of the Stock under section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, or authorize all or a portion of such Awards to be granted to an Eligible Person to be on terms which permit transfer by such Participant; provided that, in either case the transferee or transferees must be any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, in each case with respect to the Participant, any person sharing the Participant's household (other than a tenant or employee of the Company), a trust in which these persons have more than fifty percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Participant) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests (collectively, "Permitted Transferees"); provided further
Permitted Transferees
 
that, (X) there may be no consideration for any such transfer and (Y) subsequent transfers of Awards transferred as provided above shall be prohibited except subsequent transfers back to the original holder of the Award and transfers to other Permitted Transferees of the original holder. Agreements evidencing Awards with respect to which such transferability is authorized at the time of grant must be approved by the Committee, and must expressly provide for transferability in a manner consistent with this Subsection 10(a)(i).
               (ii) . An Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Phantom Stock Award or Restricted Stock Award (if such Restricted Stock Award does not require the transfer of consideration by the Participant or the holder other than usual and customary service) after the Company's initial registration of the Stock under section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, may be transferred, to a Permitted Transferee, pursuant to a domestic relations order entered or approved by a court of competent jurisdiction upon delivery to the Company of written notice of such transfer and a certified copy of such order.
Qualified Domestic Relations Orders
               (iii) . Except as expressly permitted by Subsections 10(a)(i) and 10(a)(ii), Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution except that in the Committee's discretion a Stock Appreciation Right, Phantom Stock Award (if such Stock Appreciation Right or Phantom Stock Award is not exercisable for Stock and not subject to the Participant's or holder's discretion as to the timing or method of payment) or Restricted Stock Award (if such Restricted Stock Award does not require the transfer of consideration by the Participant or the holder other than usual and customary service) may be transferable, however, not for consideration. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 10, an Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Other Transfers
               (iv) . Following the transfer of any Award as contemplated by Subsections 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) and 10(a)(iii), (A) such Award shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer, provided that the term "Participant" shall be deemed to refer to the Permitted Transferee, the recipient under a qualified domestic relations order, the estate or heirs of a deceased Participant, or other transferee, as applicable, to the extent appropriate to enable the Participant to exercise the transferred Award in accordance with the terms of this Plan and applicable law and (B) the provisions of the Award relating to exercisability hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Participant and, following the occurrence of any such events described therein the Awards shall be exercisable by the Permitted Transferee, the recipient under a qualified domestic relations order, the estate or heirs of a deceased Participant, or other transferee, as applicable, only to the extent and for the periods that would have been applicable in the absence of the transfer.
Effect of Transfer
               (v) . Any Participant desiring to transfer an Award as permitted under Subsections 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) or 10(a)(iii) shall make application therefor in the manner and time specified by the Committee and shall comply with such other requirements as the Committee may require to assure compliance with all applicable securities laws. The Committee shall not give permission for such a transfer if (A) it would give rise to short-swing liability under section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or (B) it may not be made in compliance with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws.
Procedures and Restrictions
 
               (vi) . To the extent the issuance to any Permitted Transferee of any shares of Stock issuable pursuant to Awards transferred as permitted in this Section 10(a) is not registered pursuant to the effective registration statement of the Company generally covering the shares to be issued pursuant to this Plan to initial holders of Awards, the Company shall not have any obligation to register the issuance of any such shares of Stock to any such transferee.
Registration
          (b) . The Company and any Subsidiary is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, or any payment relating to an Award under this Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, amounts of withholding and other taxes due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a Participant's tax obligations, either on a mandatory or elective basis in the discretion of the Committee.
Taxes
          (c) . The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate this Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under this Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants, except that any amendment or alteration to this Plan, including any increase in any share limitation, shall be subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders not later than the annual meeting next following such Board action if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock may then be listed or quoted, and the Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other such changes to this Plan to stockholders for approval; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Board action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any previously granted and outstanding Award. The Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any Award theretofore granted and any Award agreement relating thereto, except as otherwise provided in this Plan; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Committee action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under such Award. In no event may the Board or the Committee make any alteration to or amendment of an Award or provide for the exchange of any Awards that, in either case, would constitute the repricing of Options for purposes of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Changes to this Plan and Awards
          (d) . Neither this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) giving any Eligible Person or Participant the right to continue as an Eligible Person or Participant or in the employ or service of the Company or a Subsidiary, (ii) interfering in any way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate any Eligible Person's or Participant's employment or service at any time, (iii) giving an Eligible Person or Participant any claim to be granted any Award under this Plan or to be treated uniformly with other Participants and employees, or (iv) conferring on a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Participant is duly issued or transferred shares of Stock in accordance with the terms of an Award.
Limitation on Rights Conferred Under Plan
 
          (e) . This Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for certain incentive awards.
Unfunded Status of Awards
          (f) . Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable, including incentive arrangements and awards which do not qualify under section 162(m) of the Code. Nothing contained in this Plan shall be construed to prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from taking any corporate action which is deemed by the Company or such Subsidiary to be appropriate or in its best interest, whether or not such action would have an adverse effect on this Plan or any Award made under this Plan. No employee, beneficiary or other person shall have any claim against the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of any such action.
Nonexclusivity of this Plan
          (g) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award with respect to which a Participant paid cash or other consideration to the Company in exchange for such Award, the Participant shall be repaid the amount of such cash or other consideration. No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
Payments in the Event of Forfeitures; Fractional Shares
          (h) . If any provision of this Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, but such provision shall be fully severable and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein. If any of the terms or provisions of this Plan or any Award agreement conflict with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 (as those terms or provisions are applied to Eligible Persons who are subject to section 16(b) of the Exchange Act) or section 422 of the Code (with respect to Incentive Stock Options), then those conflicting terms or provisions shall be deemed inoperative to the extent they so conflict with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 (unless the Board or the Committee, as appropriate, has expressly determined that the Plan or such Award should not comply with Rule 16b-3) or section 422 of the Code. With respect to Incentive Stock Options, if this Plan does not contain any provision required to be included herein under section 422 of the Code, that provision shall be deemed to be incorporated herein with the same force and effect as if that provision had been set out at length herein; provided, further, that, to the extent any Option that is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option cannot so qualify, that Option (to that extent) shall be deemed an Option not subject to section 422 of the Code for all purposes of the Plan.
Severability
          (i) . All questions arising with respect to the provisions of the Plan and Awards shall be determined by application of the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to any conflict of law provisions thereof, except to the extent Texas law is preempted by federal law. The obligation of the Company to sell and deliver Stock hereunder is subject to applicable federal and state laws and to the approval of any governmental authority required in connection with the authorization, issuance, sale, or delivery of such Stock.
Governing Law
 
          (j) . Nothing herein or in any Award granted hereunder or any Award agreement shall require the Company to issue any shares with respect to any Award if that issuance would, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, constitute a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable statute or regulation, or the rules of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. At the time of any exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, or at the time of any grant of a Restricted Stock Award, the Company may, as a condition precedent to the exercise of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or vesting of any Restricted Stock Award, require from the Participant (or in the event of his death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) such written representations, if any, concerning the holder's intentions with regard to the retention or disposition of the shares of Stock being acquired pursuant to the Award and such written covenants and agreements, if any, as to the manner of disposal of such shares as, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, may be necessary to ensure that any disposition by that holder (or in the event of the holder's death, his legal representatives, heirs, legatees, or distributees) will not involve a violation of the Securities Act or any similar or superseding statute or statutes, any other applicable state or federal statute or regulation, or any rule of any applicable securities exchange or securities association, as then in effect. No Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable and no restriction on any Restricted Stock Award shall lapse with respect to a Participant unless and until the holder thereof shall have paid cash or property to, or performed services for, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that the Committee believes is equal to or greater in value than the par value of the Stock subject to such Award.
Conditions to Delivery of Stock
          (k) . This Plan was adopted by the Committee on March 28, 2005 and became effective upon approval by the stockholders of the Company at the annual meeting occurring May 18, 2005.
Plan Effective Date and Stockholder Approval

 
EXHIBIT 10.8
     This First Amendment to the Range Resources Corporation 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is effective as provided herein and is made by Range Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"):
     , the Company has established the Plan in order to attract able persons to serve as directors or to enter the employ of the Company and its affiliates, and to provide a means whereby those individuals upon whom the responsibilities of the successful administration and management of the Company rest, and whose present and potential contributions to the welfare of the Company and its affiliates are of importance, can acquire and maintain stock ownership thereby strengthening their concern for the welfare of the Company and its affiliates and, further, to provide such individuals with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to enhance the profitable growth of the Company and its affiliates;
WHEREAS
     , an increase in the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be used in connection with the Plan must be approved by the stockholders of the Company, pursuant to Section 10(c) of the Plan and section 422(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
WHEREAS
     , this First Amendment is subject to stockholder approval.
WHEREAS
     , the Plan is amended as provided herein, effective as of May 18, 2005, provided that the terms of this First Amendment are approved by the Company's stockholders, and, except as provided below, the Plan shall continue to read in its current state:
NOW, THEREFORE
     
4. Stock Subject to Plan.
     (a) . Subject to adjustment in a manner consistent with any adjustment made pursuant to Section 9, the total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under this Plan shall not exceed the sum of (i) 750,000 shares (the "162(m) Covered Shares"), plus (ii) 9,250,000 shares of Stock, less (iii) the number of shares of Stock issued under the Range Resources Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "1999 Plan") prior to the Effective Date and less the number of shares of Stock issuable pursuant to awards outstanding under the 1999 Plan as of the Effective Date, plus (iv) the number of shares that become available for delivery under the 1999 Plan after the Effective Date with respect to awards that lapse or are terminated and with respect to which shares are not issued.
Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery
 
     . Awards may be granted under this Plan only to Eligible Persons. In any 12-month period established by the Committee, during any part of which this Plan is in effect, a Covered Employee may not be granted Awards, with respect to the 162(m) Covered Shares, relating to more than 300,000 shares of Stock with respect to Stock-based Awards, subject to adjustment in a manner consistent with any adjustment made pursuant to Section 9, or $2,500,000 with respect to Awards the value of which is not based on Stock.
5. Eligibility; Per Person Award Limitations
     , a duly authorized officer of the Company has executed this First Amendment as set forth below.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF


