FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20050728112056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 27, 2005, Range Resources Corporation issued a press release announcing its second quarter results. A copy of this press release is being furnished as an exhibit to this report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
          99.1 Press Release dated July 27, 2005
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced second quarter results. Record highs were achieved in production, revenues and cash flow. Production reached 232.8 Mmcfe per day, a 28% increase over the prior year period. Revenues totaled $119.7 million, a 74% increase over the prior year. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital, a non-GAAP measure, increased 83% to $80.1 million. Net income to common jumped 191% to $21.7 million, while diluted earnings per share rose 117% to $0.26. Excluding a $5.3 million non-cash deferred compensation expense, second quarter net income would have been $25.0 million or $0.31 per share ($0.30 fully diluted). (See accompanying table for calculation of these non-GAAP measures.)
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, JULY 27, 2005...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Oil and gas revenues totaled $118.7 million, 76% higher than the prior year due to a 28% increase in production coupled with a 37% increase in realized prices. Production totaled 232.8 Mmcfe per day, comprised of 168.8 Mmcf of gas (73%) and 10,668 barrels of oil and liquids. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for hedging, averaged $5.60 per mcfe, a $1.51 increase over the prior-year period. The average gas price rose 39% to $5.63 per mcf, as the average oil price rose 33% to $35.94 a barrel. Operating expenses per mcfe increased to $0.82 per mcfe due to higher than normal workover expense primarily due to three large workovers in the Gulf of Mexico. Exploration expense rose due to $5.7 million of seismic expenditures. General and administrative expense decreased two cents per mcfe. Interest expense increased as a result of higher debt balances due to acquisitions. Depletion, depreciation and amortization per mcfe increased eight cents to $1.44 per mcfe.
Second quarter development and exploration expenditures totaled $80.1 million, funding the drilling of 209 (159 net) wells and 31 (27 net) recompletions. All but five of the wells proved productive for a 97% success rate. By quarter end, 118 (82 net) of the wells had been placed on production, with the remainder in various stages of completion or waiting on pipeline connection. The expenditures included $6.3 million of leasehold additions and $5.7 million of seismic purchases. In addition, $127.0 million was spent during the quarter on property acquisitions.
Drilling activity in the third quarter remains high with 27 rigs currently running. For the year, Range anticipates drilling 820 (609 net) wells and undertaking 75 (53 net) recompletions. During the quarter, Range also continued to expand several of its key drilling areas and emerging plays. In Appalachia, the first of three deep horizontal Trenton Black River wells in Bradford County, Pennsylvania was initiated. In the Appalachian shale play, a second test well offsetting our initial test has spud, and two additional vertical wells and a horizontal well are scheduled before year-end. Range is also expanding its leasehold position in both the Appalachian shale play as well as its Texas shale play. With regard to the coal bed methane plays, drilling at the Nora Field is continuing to drive up production while step-out drilling in the Haysi Field has been encouraging. The first five CBM wells at Haysi are on production with initial results indicating high-quality commercial coals comparable to those found in the Nora Field. As a result, a follow on ten-well program has been initiated at Haysi. Also, at the 77,000 acre Widen Field in West Virginia, Range has initiated coring operations to determine gas content of the coals that exist across the field. In the Midcontinent, production is up 18% for the first half of the year due to increased drilling activity primarily on properties acquired last year. A deep Mountain Front exploratory test in the Anadarko Basin has spud and is expected to reach total depth in late 2005. In the Permian Basin, drilling and refracs continue to increase production. At the West Furhman Mascho Field in Andrews County, Texas production is up 25% since year-end. On our newly acquired properties in southeastern New Mexico, plans are to drill 41 wells over the next 12 months. A two-rig program is scheduled to
 
commence in August. In the Gulf Coast region, the Monceaux #1, our fourth consecutive successful well in our onshore South Louisiana program, came online at an initial rate of 6.4 (2.2 net) Mmcfe per day. Offshore, Range has a 15% working interest in the West Cameron 295 #2 well which recently reached total depth and encountered 150 feet of pay in two intervals. First production is anticipated later this year.
Commenting, John H. Pinkerton, the Company's President, said, "Range made great progress in the first half of 2005. Our 800+ well drilling program is on schedule and the emerging plays are making solid headway. Our recent acquisition of Permian Basin properties in southeast New Mexico added production and reserves at an attractive cost and expands our inventory of low-risk drilling opportunities. Importantly, our realized oil and gas prices are increasing rapidly as lower price swaps continue to roll off. Higher realized prices, combined with the success of our drilling and acquisition programs is driving record levels of production, revenue, cash flow and earnings. We anticipate this trend to continue throughout the remainder of 2005. Looking further ahead, driven by our large, multi-year drilling inventory and 2.6 million acre leasehold position, Range is well positioned to continue to profitably grow production and reserves for many years to come."
The Company will host a conference call on Thursday, July 28 at 2:00 p.m. ET to review these results. To participate in the call, please dial 877-207-5526 and ask for the Range Resources second quarter financial results conference call. A replay of the call will be available through August 4 at 800-642-1687. The conference ID for the replay is 7930809.
A simultaneous webcast of the call may be accessed over the Internet at or . To listen, please go to either website in time to register and install any necessary software. The webcast will be archived for replay on the Company's website for 15 days.
www.rangeresources.com
www.vcall.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
Earnings for second quarter 2005 include a non-cash deferred compensation expense of $5.3 million and net ineffective hedging losses of $14,000. Excluding such items, income before income taxes would have been $39.9 million, a 148% increase from the prior year. Adjusting for the after-tax effect of these items, the Company's earnings would have been $25.0 million or $0.31 per share ($0.30 fully diluted). If similar items were excluded, 2004 earnings would have been $10.1 million or $0.16 per share ($0.16 per diluted share). In 2004, results were impacted by $1.3 million in ineffective hedging gains and a $4.3 million deferred compensation expense. (See reconciliation of non-GAAP earnings in the accompanying table.) The Company believes results excluding these items are more comparable to estimates provided by security analysts and, therefore, are useful in evaluating operational trends of the Company and its performance relative to other oil and gas producing companies.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as defined in this release represents net cash provided by operations before changes in working capital and exploration expense adjusted for certain non-cash compensation items. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is widely accepted by the investment community as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is also useful because it is widely used by professional research analysts in valuing, comparing, rating and providing investment recommendations of companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In turn, many investors use this published research in making investment decisions. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operations, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity. A table is included which reconciles net cash provided by operations to Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as used in this release. On its website, the Company provides additional comparative information on prior periods.
is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Except for historical information, statements made in this release, including those relating to attractive acquisition costs, future earnings, cash flow, capital expenditures and profitably growing production are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable based
 
on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and the Company's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates and environmental risks. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference.
 
 (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 (unaudited)
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
(In thousands)
BALANCE SHEETS
 
 (Unaudited, in thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
 (In thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS
ADJUSTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING
 (Unaudited, in thousands)
 
 (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
RECONCILATION OF NET INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AS REPORTED TO NET INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES EXCLUDING CERTAIN NON-CASH ITEMS
 As of July 27, 2005 (unaudited)
HEDGING POSITION


