FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20050331112017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 1.01
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
          On March 28, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Range Resources Corporation (the "Company") approved (i) the Range Resources Corporation Executive Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan (the "Management Plan") to provide severance benefits to officers and certain key employees (the "Management Group") upon a change in control and (ii) the Range Resources Corporation Employee Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan (the "Employee Plan"), to provide to all employees who are not covered under the Management Plan (the "Employee Group") certain severance benefits upon a change in control.
          Under the Management Plan eligible employees are entitled to severance benefits if their employment is terminated at any time upon or within 12 calendar months following a change in control other than (i) a voluntary termination by the employee other than for good reason (as defined in the plan), (ii) a termination by the Company for cause (as defined in the plan) and (iii) any termination of employment on account of disability or death. The severance benefit under the Management Plan consists of:
          The Benefit Multiples for certain members of the Management Group are as follows: Mr. John Pinkerton  three; Mr. Jeffrey Ventura  three; Mr. Roger Manny  two and one-half; Mr. Rodney Waller  two; and Mr. Chad Stephens  two. The Benefit Multiple for other members of the Management Group is two for officers and one for other key employees eligible to participate in the Management Plan. Members of the Management Group who voluntarily resign from employment with us (other than for good reason), are terminated for cause or whose employment is terminated due to disability or death receive no severance benefits under the Management Plan.
          Under the Employee Group Plan, if an eligible employee's employment is terminated at any time upon or within 12 calendar months following a change in control, other than (i) a voluntary termination by the employee, (ii) a termination by the Company for cause (as defined in the plan) and (iii) any termination of employment on account of disability or death, the employee will receive a lump sum payment equal to (a) six months of the employee's annual base salary plus (b) one-half of the average of the past two annual bonuses paid or awarded to the employee for the past two fiscal years. Members of the Employee Group who voluntarily resign from employment with us, are terminated for cause or terminate their employment due to disability or death receive no severance benefits under the Employee Plan.
          In addition, under each of the Management Plan and the Employee Plan, upon a change in control all nonvested equity-based compensation awards automatically vest and, in the event of a termination of employment after a Change in Control (other than a voluntary resignation (other than for good reason in the case of the Management Group) or termination for cause), will remain exercisable for the lesser of the remaining term of the award or one year following the termination of employment.
          A "Change in Control" is defined in both plans as, generally, the acquisition of 35% or more of the voting power of the Company; the replacement of a majority of our current directors by other persons whose election was not approved by the current directors or their approved successors; the reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; the approval by the stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; and the public announcement or commencement of a tender or exchange offer pursuant to which an acquirer would acquire 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the Company, which tender or exchange offer is approved or unopposed by the Board of Directors of the Company (provided the transaction (or
Table of Contents
other transaction constituting a Change in Control) is consummated within one year of the announcement or commencement) .
          The Management Plan and the Employee Plan are effective through December 31, 2005, but thereafter may be continued for successive one year terms unless provided to the contrary by the Board of Directors of the Company by the November 30 preceding the applicable expiration date.
          The Management Plan and the Employee Plan are intended to replace and supercede the Amended and Restated Change in Control Plan dated September 15, 1998 filed as Exhibit 10.15 to our Form S-4, File No. 333-108516, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 4, 2003. A copy of the Management Plan and the form of Participation Agreement are attached to this Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 10.1 and exhibit 10.2, respectively. Executive officers of the Company do not participate in the Employee Plan.
          The description of the Management Plan set forth herein is a summary of the material terms of this plan and is qualified by reference to the copy of this plan filed as an Exhibit hereto.
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(a)
Exhibits.
*filed herewith
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 31, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Employee believes that an event constituting Good Reason has occurred, the Employee shall notify the Plan Administrator of that belief, which notice shall set forth the basis for that belief. The Plan Administrator shall have ten (10) days after receipt of such notice in which to either rectify such event to the Employee's reasonable satisfaction, determine that an event constituting Good Reason does not exist, or determine that an event constituting Good Reason exists. If the Plan Administrator does not take any of such actions within such ten (10)-day period, the Employee may terminate the Employee's employment for Good Reason immediately at the end of the ten (10)-day period by giving written notice to the Employer, which termination will be an Involuntary Termination of Employment effective immediately prior to the date the event constituting Good Reason occurred. If the Plan Administrator determines that Good Reason does or does not exist, then the Plan Administrator shall provide written notice of such determination to the Employee within 5 days after the Plan Administrator's determination. If the Plan Administrator determines that Good Reason does not exist, then (i) subject to Section 4.1, the Employee shall not be entitled to rely on or assert such event as constituting Good Reason and (ii) the Employee may file a claim pursuant to Article IV within 30 days after Employee's receipt or written notice of the Plan Administrator's determination.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
[Date]
[Name
          Re: Participation Agreement under the Range Resources Corporation Executive Change In Control Severance Benefit Plan
Dear :
[Name]
          The board of directors (the "Board") of Range Resources Corporation (the "Company") has adopted the Range Resources Corporation Executive Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan (the "Plan") for a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company. You have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board to participate in the Plan. A copy of the Plan is being furnished to you concurrently with this Participation Agreement (the "Agreement") and shall be deemed a part of this Agreement as if fully set forth herein.
          Your "benefit multiple" for purposes of Sections 3.1(a) and (b) of the Plan is _________.
          By executing this Agreement, you indicate that you have read, understood and agree to the terms of the Plan, including, but not limited to, Section 3.3 (regarding a general release, in the form acceptable to the Company, to be executed by you) and Section 8.1 (regarding nondisparagement). If you do not execute and return a copy of this Agreement to the Company, within twenty (20) days of the date indicated above, indicating your acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Plan, you will not be eligible to receive benefits thereunder.
:
ACCEPTED


