FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20080520173424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
     On May 20, 2008, Range Resources Corporation (the "Company") announced certain changes to the Company's management and Board of Directors ("Board") composition pursuant to its internally developed succession plans.
     Mr. Ventura, age 50, has served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer since he joined the Company in 2003. He was elected to the Board in 2005. Previously, Mr. Ventura served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Matador Petroleum Corporation, which he joined in 1997. Additional biographical information about Mr. Ventura may be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.
     On May 20, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the results of its annual stockholders' meeting and the management changes discussed above. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this heading, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Table of Contents
(d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 20, 2008
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced the results of its annual stockholders' meeting and certain management changes.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, MAY 20, 2008...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Annual Meeting Results
Range held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders earlier today. The Annual Meeting was held (i) to elect a Board of eight directors, each for a one-year term; (ii) to vote on a proposal to amend Range's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock to 475 million shares; (iii) to vote on a proposal to amend Range's 2005 Equity-Based Compensation Plan; and (iv) to ratify appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Range's independent auditors for 2008. At the meeting, Charles Blackburn, Anthony Dub, Richard Eales, Allen Finkelson, Jonathan Linker, Kevin McCarthy, John Pinkerton and Jeffrey Ventura were re-elected as directors. All four proposals set forth in the Company's proxy were passed by stockholders at the annual meeting. Voting results for each proposal are available on the Company's website at www.rangeresources.com.
Management Changes
Today the Board of Directors appointed John Pinkerton, Range's current President and Chief Executive Officer, as Chairman of the Board. His new title will be Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Pinkerton replaces Charles Blackburn as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Blackburn will continue to serve as a director of Range. The independent members of the Board of Directors have approved the creation of the position of Lead Director. Richard Eales, a current non-employee Board member, has been appointed to serve as Lead Director.
In addition, Jeffrey Ventura, Range's current Chief Operating Officer, has been appointed President. Mr. Ventura will continue to serve as Chief Operating Officer, and his new title will be President and Chief Operating Officer. Roger Manny, Range's current Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has been appointed Executive Vice President. Mr. Manny will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer, and his new title will be Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION


