FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20080428155829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On April 28, 2008, Range Resources Corporation ("Range") issued a press release announcing that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer 3.5 million shares of common stock through an underwritten offering. The underwriters for the offering will also have the option to purchase up to 525,000 additional shares of common stock to cover any over-allotments. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     On April 28, 2008, Range issued a press release announcing that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer $250 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2018 in a registered public offering. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     The completion of the common stock offering is not conditioned upon the completion of the public offering of senior subordinated notes and vice versa.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this heading, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
  (d)
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2008
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     announced today that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer 3.5 million shares of common stock through an underwritten offering. The underwriters for the offering will also have the option to purchase up to 525,000 additional shares of common stock to cover any over-allotments. Range intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of Range's senior credit facility. Such amounts may be reborrowed from time to time for general corporate purposes including, but not limited to, acreage acquisitions.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, APRIL 28, 2008...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
     J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC will act as joint book-running managers for the common stock offering. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus for the offering may be obtained on the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the underwriters will arrange to send you the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus if you request them by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, Attention: Prospectus Department, e-mail: addressing.services@jpmorgan.com, telephone: (718) 242-8002 or Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC at One Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010, Attention: Prospectus Department or by calling toll free 800-221-1037.
     Shortly following the pricing of the common stock offering, subject to market conditions, Range expects to offer approximately $250 million in principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2018 in a registered public offering. The completion of this common stock offering is not conditioned upon the completion of the public offering of senior subordinated notes and vice versa.
     is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION
     
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities referred to above. An offering of any such securities will be made only by means of a prospectus. Any such prospectus shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any such securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
     
Except for historical information, statements made in this release about the proposed offerings are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that Range's management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and Range's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates, environmental risks and the occurrence of any unanticipated acquisition opportunities. Range undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in Range's filings with the SEC, which are incorporated herein by reference.
2008-13                    

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
     today announced that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer $250 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2018. The offering and sale of the senior subordinated notes is pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Range intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of Range's senior credit facility.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, APRIL 28, 2008...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
     J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC will act as joint book-running managers for the senior subordinated notes offering. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus for the offering may be obtained on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the underwriters will arrange to send you the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus if you request them by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 270 Park Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, New York 10017, attention Syndicate Desk or Banc of America Securities LLC at 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, (800) 294-1322, Attention: Capital Markets Operations, or by e-mailing dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com.
     Shortly before this offering of senior subordinated notes, Range commenced a registered underwritten offering of 3.5 million shares of common stock. The completion of this senior subordinated notes offering is not conditioned upon the completion of the pending registered common stock offering, and vice versa.
     is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION
     
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities referred to above. An offering of any such securities will be made only by means of a prospectus. Any such prospectus shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any such securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
     
Except for historical information, statements made in this release about the proposed offering are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that Range's management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and Range's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates, environmental risks and the occurrence of any unanticipated acquisition opportunities. Range undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in Range's filings with the SEC, which are incorporated herein by reference.
2008-14                    


