FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20080227130847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     On February 26, 2008 Range Resources Corporation issued a press release announcing its 2007 results. A copy of this press release is being furnished as an exhibit to this report on Form 8-K.
     (c) Exhibits:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 27, 2008
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced its 2007 results. Production, total revenues, oil and gas sales revenues, cash flow and earnings all reached record high levels for the year. Reported total revenues were $862 million up 16%, oil and gas sales revenues were $863 million up 44%, cash flow was $632 million up 43% and earnings were $231 million up 45% or $1.54 diluted earnings per share. The following measures are the most comparable to analysts' estimates for the same amounts for the year which constitute non-GAAP measures. Please see the accompanying tables for the calculation of these non-GAAP measures. Oil and gas sales revenues including all cash-settled derivatives totaled $944 million, a 38% increase over the prior year. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital increased 44% to $674 million. Net income comparable to analyst estimates was $253 million, increasing 63% from the prior comparable year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.69, a 51% increase. A 17% increase in production coupled with an 18% rise in realized prices drove the results. Range replaced 537% of production during the year at an all-in cost of $1.82 per mcfe. Proved reserves increased 27% to 2.2 Tcfe.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, FEBRUARY 26, 2008...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Commenting, John H. Pinkerton, the Company's President and CEO, said, "2007 was an outstanding year for Range and its stockholders. Financially, record highs were achieved for all the key metrics both on an absolute and per share basis. Operationally, production rose 17% and proved reserves increased 27% at an attractive all-in cost of $1.82 per mcfe. Looking ahead, we are in an excellent position to set record results again in 2008. Our drilling inventory now exceeds 11,000 locations, and we are off to a fast start with our 2008 drilling program. Importantly, we continue to make solid progress with regard to delineating and expanding our emerging plays. The unrisked reserve potential of the drilling inventory and emerging plays far exceeds our current proven reserves and will be the catalyst for our future growth for many years to come."
Production for the year totaled 117.6 Bcfe, comprised of 90.5 Bcf of gas and 4.5 million barrels of oil and liquids. Production rose in each quarter of the year and averaged 322 Mmcfe per day. Range has achieved consecutive production increases in each of the past 20 quarters. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for all cash-settled hedges and derivatives, rose 18% to $8.03 per mcfe. The average gas price rose 16% to $7.66 per mcf, as the average oil price rose 27% to $60.13 a barrel. The cash margin per mcfe for 2007 rose to a record $5.67 per mcfe, 22% higher than 2006.
Reported total revenues for the fourth quarter were $223 million up 27%, oil and gas sales revenues were $241 million up 54%, cash flow was $187 million up 53% and earnings were $34 million up significantly over the $0.4 million of the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $0.22 as compared to a breakeven amount in the prior year due to a loss on discontinued operations. The amounts corresponding to analysts' estimates for the same measures which are non-GAAP measures for the fourth quarter of 2007 are as follows (see the accompanying tables for the calculation of these non-GAAP measures). Oil and gas revenues, including all cash-settled derivatives, rose 48% to $262 million, while realized prices increased 26% to $8.29 per mcf. Production in the quarter increased 17%, averaging 343 Mmcfe per day. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital increased 64% to a record $190 million. During the quarter, the Company provided a $6.4 million allowance for unproved acreage, which reduced diluted earnings per share by three cents. Net income comparable to analysts' estimates would have been $61 million or $0.40 per diluted share, 90% greater than the comparable prior year.
As previously reported, the Company replaced 537% of production in 2007. Drilling alone replaced 424% of production. Proved reserves at December 31, 2007 totaled 2.2 Tcfe, including 1.8 Tcf of natural gas and 67 million barrels of crude oil and liquids. Reserves increased 475 Bcfe or 27% during the year. At year-end, reserves were 82% natural gas by volume, and the reserve life index stood at 17.7 years based on fourth quarter production rates. The percentage of proved developed reserves increased to 64% versus 63% in 2006. Independent petroleum consultants reviewed 86% of the reserves by volume. At year-end, the pretax present value of proved reserves, based on constant prices and costs, discounted at 10% totaled $5.2 billion and the after tax standardized measure was $3.7 billion. The reserve value was based on year-end benchmark prices of $6.80 per Mmbtu and $95.98 per barrel NYMEX. The Company's all-in finding and development cost averaged $1.82 per mcfe. Drilling expenditures, including $78 million of acreage costs in 2007, totaled $894 million equating to a drill bit finding and development cost of $1.79 per mcfe. The Company has set a 2008 capital budget, excluding acquisitions, of $1.065 billion to fund the drilling
 
of 968 (715 net) wells and 82 (66 net) recompletions. Based on current futures prices and hedges in place, the 2008 capital budget is anticipated to be funded with internal cash flow and asset sales.
Range's drilling program continues to achieve excellent results. At our Nora field in Virginia two separate pilot programs to test downspacing of coal bed methane and tight gas sand wells are achieving early positive results. Our first horizontal well was completed to the Huron shale in the fourth quarter and achieved commercial rates. Ten additional horizontal shale wells are planned here in 2008. Currently the field is producing about 50 Mmcfe per day, net to Range's interest. With continued positive results in our downspacing programs, there could be as many as 6,000 remaining drilling locations. In our North Texas Barnett Shale play, we currently own in excess of 100,000 net acres and production is now averaging 98 Mmcfe per day, a three-fold increase versus the same time last year. Two new wells drilled in Tarrant County were recently placed on production at initial rates of 8.9 (6.2 net) and 8.3 (5.8 net) Mmcfe per day. Finally, in the Marcellus Shale play in the Appalachian Basin our leasehold position now totals 1.1 million net acres, of which 650,000 net acres are currently considered prospective for shale gas development. Our latest horizontal shale completion just came online at 3.3 Mmcfe per day. This is in addition to the two horizontal shale completions announced last week which came on line at 4.7 and 4.0 mcfe per day. In the last seven months, Range has drilled seven successive horizontal shale wells in the play with initial production rates ranging between 3.2 to 4.7 Mmcfe per day. Given our substantial acreage position, this play represents as much as 10 to 15 Tcfe in unproven unrisked reserve potential for the Company. In 2008, we plan to drill a total of 60 Marcellus shale wells, 40 of which are planned as horizontal wells.
The Company will host a conference call on Wednesday, February 27 at 1:00 p.m. ET to review these results. To participate in the call, please dial 877-407-8035 and ask for the Range Resources 2007 financial results conference call. A replay of the call will be available through March 5 at 877-660-6853. The conference ID for the replay is 274505 and the Account number is 286.
A simultaneous webcast of the call may be accessed over the Internet at www.rangeresources.com or www.vcall.com. To listen, please go to either website in time to register and install any necessary software. The webcast will be archived for replay on the Company's website for 15 days.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
Earnings for 2007 included a $78.8 million mark-to-market loss on certain derivative transactions, derivative ineffective hedging losses of $820,000, a non-cash stock compensation expense of $52.3 million and a gain on discontinued operations of $60.2 million net of tax. Excluding such items, income before income taxes would have been $401 million, a 57% increase over the prior year. Adjusting for the after-tax effect of these items, the Company's earnings would have been $252.6 million in 2007 or $1.76 per share ($1.69 per diluted share). If similar items were excluded, 2006 earnings would have been $155.4 million or $1.16 per share ($1.12 per diluted share). Earnings for 2006 included mark-to-market derivative gains of $86.5 million, ineffective hedging gains of $6 million and $26 million of non-cash stock compensation. (See reconciliation of non-GAAP earnings in the accompanying table.) The Company believes results excluding these items are more comparable to estimates provided by security analysts and, therefore, are useful in evaluating operational trends of the Company and its performance relative to other oil and gas producing companies.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as defined in this release represents net cash provided by operations before changes in working capital and exploration expense adjusted for certain non-cash compensation items. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is widely accepted by the investment community as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is also useful because it is widely used by professional research analysts in valuing, comparing, rating and providing investment recommendations of companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In turn, many investors use this published research in making investment decisions. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operations, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity. A table is included which reconciles net cash provided by operations to Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as used in this release.
The cash prices realized for oil and natural gas production including the amounts realized on cash settled derivatives is a critical component in the Company's performance tracked by investors and professional research analysts in valuing, comparing, rating and providing investment recommendations and forecasts of companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In turn, many investors use this published research in making investment decisions. Due to the GAAP disclosures of various hedging and derivative transactions, such information is now reported in various lines of the income statement. The Company believes that it is important to furnish a table reflecting the details of the various components of each income statement line to better inform the reader the details of each amount and provide a summary of the realized cash-settled amounts which historically were reported as oil and gas sales revenues. This information will serve to bridge the gap between various readers'
 
understanding and fully disclose the information needed. On its website, the Company provides additional comparative information on prior periods.
is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Except for historical information, statements made in this release, including those relating to expected reserves quantities, capital expenditures, drilling inventory, unrisked reserve potential and emerging plays are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and the Company's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference.
Finding costs from all sources is calculated by taking all cash expenditures for drilling, development, acreage and acquisitions divided by the sum of extensions, discoveries, additions, purchases and revisions to reserve volumes. Drill bit finding costs is calculated by taking all cash expenditures for drilling, development and acreage costs divided by the sum of extensions, discoveries, additions and revisions to reserves volumes.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has generally permitted oil and gas companies, in filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use the terms "potential," "probable," "possible" or "unproven" to describe volumes of reserves potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that the SEC's guidelines may prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized by the Company. While we believe our calculations of unproven drill sites and estimation of unproven reserves and are reasonable, such calculations and estimates have not been reviewed by third-party engineers or appraisers and do not take into account any capital or commercial constraints. Such disclosures as to "unproven reserve potential" has not been risked for possible failure to find commercial quantities of oil and gas reserves when drilled.
(817) 870-2601
www.rangeresources.com
 
Based on GAAP reported earnings with additional details of items included in each line in Form 10-K (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME Restated for Gulf of Mexico Discontinued Operations, a non-GAAP Presentation (Unaudited, in thousands)
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
 
 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME Restated for Gulf of Mexico Discontinued Operations, a non-GAAP Presentation (Unaudited, in thousands)
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
 
 
(Audited, in thousands)
BALANCE SHEETS
 
(Unaudited, in thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
(Unaudited, in thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS, a non-GAAP measure
(Unaudited, in thousands)
ADJUSTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING
 
A Non-GAAP Measure Including Gulf of Mexico Discontinued Operations (Unaudited, in thousands, except per unit data)
OIL AND GAS SALES INFORMATION
 
 
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
RECONCILIATION OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AS REPORTED TO INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES EXCLUDING CERTAIN NON-CASH ITEMS, a non-GAAP measure
As of February 26, 2008 (Unaudited)
HEDGING POSITION
 


