FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20081008183105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     On October 7, 2008 Range Resources Corporation issued a press release providing an update on its credit facility and certain operational information.
     In accordance with General Instruction B. 2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this heading, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
99.1 Press Release dated October 7, 2008
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 8, 2008
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
Range Resources announced today that its bank group has, as requested, reconfirmed at the regularly scheduled confirmation date, the Company's $1.5 billion borrowing base and $1.0 billion commitment amount maturing in October of 2012.  The Range bank group is comprised of 24 commercial banks holding between 3.0% and 5.3% of the total facility.   With no one bank holding more than 5.3% of the facility, there is significant bank lending capacity within the existing bank group available should Range elect its option to increase its $1.0 billion commitment amount up to the $1.5 billion borrowing base.   The large number of banks and relatively low hold levels also allow for significant flexibility should there be additional consolidation within the banking sector.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, OCTOBER 7, 2008...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
The Company also reconfirmed the following aspects of its business:
John H. Pinkerton, the Company's Chairman and CEO, commented, "Given these tumultuous times in the investment and credit markets, we believe that Range can continue to prosper given its low cost structure and its large inventory of low-risk drilling projects. Given our significant internally generated cash flows, Range is poised to continue to deliver solid production and reserve growth for several years to come with the inventory of projects on hand today without any further expansion. Although we are all affected by the volatility in the credit and investment markets, our business strategy is sound, and we are in excellent position to continue to deliver value to our stockholders."
is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwest, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION
Except for historical information, statements made in this release, including those relating to anticipated production and reserve growth, anticipated cash flow and capital expenditures, financial results and anticipated financial liquidity are forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and the Company's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates, and environmental risks. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, available from our website at or by written request to 100
www.rangersources.com
 
Throckmorton Street, Suite 1200, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. You can also obtain this form from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
2008-26
 


