FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20090511111030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On May 11, 2009, Range issued a press release announcing that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer $300 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2019 in a registered public offering. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this heading, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 11, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
     today announced that it intends, subject to market conditions, to publicly offer $300 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2019. The offering and sale of the senior subordinated notes is pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Range intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to pay down a portion of the outstanding balance of Range's senior credit facility.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, MAY 11, 2009...RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
     J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC will act as joint book-running managers for the senior subordinated notes offering. A copy of the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus for the offering may be obtained on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the underwriters will arrange to send you the preliminary prospectus supplement and related base prospectus if you request them by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 270 Park Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, New York 10017, attention Syndicate Desk, Banc of America Securities LLC at 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, New York 10001, (800) 294-1322, Attention: Capital Markets Operations, or by e-mailing or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC at 301 South College Street, 6th Floor, Charlotte, NC 28202, Attention: High Yield Syndicate
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
.
     is an independent oil and gas company operating in the Southwestern, Appalachian and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION
     
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the senior subordinated notes referred to above. An offering of any such securities will be made only by means of a prospectus. Any such prospectus shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any such securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
     
Except for historical information, statements made in this release about the proposed offering are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that Range's management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and Range's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production,
 
mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates, environmental risks and the occurrence of any unanticipated acquisition opportunities. Range undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in Range's filings with the SEC, which are incorporated herein by reference.
2009  15


