FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20110628113329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     
(c) Appointment of Certain Officers
          On June 27, 2011, the Board of Directors of Range Resources Corporation ("Range" or the "Company") announced a CEO transition plan. Jeffrey L. Ventura, currently Range's President, will assume the additional role of Chief Executive Officer beginning January 1, 2012. At such time, John H. Pinkerton, Range's current Chief Executive Officer, will assume the position of Executive Chairman. Mr. Pinkerton has served as Range's CEO since 1992. Mr. Ventura, 53, currently President and Chief Operating Officer of Range has been with the Company since 2003 and was elected a Director in 2005.
          Previously, Mr. Ventura served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Matador Petroleum Corporation which he joined in 1997. Before 1997, Mr. Ventura spent eight years at Maxus Energy Corporation where he managed various engineering, exploration and development operations and was responsible for coordination of engineering technology. Previously, Mr. Ventura was with Tenneco Inc., where he held various engineering and operating positions. Mr. Ventura holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum and Natural Gas Engineering from the Pennsylvania State University.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 27, 2011


