FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20111213165933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Range Resources Corporation (the "Company") hereby furnishes the information set forth in its Press Release, dated December 13, 2011, announcing the appointment of John H. Pinkerton to the office of Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, the appointment of Jeffrey L. Ventura to the office of President and Chief Executive Officer and the appointment of Ray N. Walker to the office of Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. These appointments are effective January 1, 2012 for terms expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Pinkerton has served as the Company's CEO since 1992. Mr. Ventura, currently President and Chief Operating Officer of Range, has been with the Company since 2003 and was elected a Director in 2005. Mr. Walker has been with the Company since 2006 and is currently Senior Vice President-Safety, Environment and Regulatory. Previously, Mr. Walker was employed by Halliburton in various technical and management roles, Union Pacific Resources and several private companies where he served as an officer. Mr. Walker has 34 years of oil and gas operations and management experience and is a Registered Petroleum Engineer.
In connection with these appointments, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors set Mr. Pinkerton's base salary at $640,000 and he is eligible for a bonus under our previously announced cash bonus plan with a target bonus opportunity of 100% of his base salary. Our Compensation Committee set Mr. Ventura's base salary at $800,000 with a target bonus opportunity under our previously announced cash bonus plan of 100%. Mr. Walker's base salary was set at $400,000. Both Mr. Pinkerton and Mr. Ventura shall participate in the Range Resources Corporation Amended and Restated Executive Change in Control Severance Benefit Plan at the "3X" participation level.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
99.1     Press Release dated December 13, 2011
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 13, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
today announced several management promotions. In June, Range announced a CEO transition plan whereby Jeff Ventura, the Company's current President and Chief Operating Officer will assume the role of Chief Executive Officer beginning January 1, 2012. At such time, John Pinkerton, Range's current CEO, will assume the position of Executive Chairman. In concert with the CEO transition plan, Range's Board of Directors recently approved several additional management promotions, all of which will be effective on January 1, 2012. Ray Walker has been promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Walker will oversee all of Range's operations and will continue to lead Range's environmental, safety, regulatory and best practices programs. Alan Farquharson has been promoted to Senior Vice President  Reservoir Engineering and Economics. In his new role, Mr. Farquharson will oversee the corporate reservoir engineering as well as the long-range planning function and will report to Mr. Ventura. Ralph Tijerina has been promoted to Vice President  Safety and Environmental. With his promotion, Mr. Tijerina will oversee the Company's entire safety and environmental effort and will report to Mr. Walker. The Company announced earlier in the year, the promotion of Mark Whitley to Senior Vice President  Northern Appalachia and Southwest Division. Mr. Whitley will continue to oversee the Company's operations of the Marcellus Shale along with its activities in Texas and New Mexico.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, DECEMBER 13, 2011RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Commenting on the organizational enhancements, John Pinkerton, Range's Chairman and CEO stated: "We congratulate Ray, Alan, and Ralph as their promotions and increased responsibilities are well deserved. With approximately 100 years of combined industry experience, these gentlemen will play a key role in Range's future success. Looking forward, the entire Range management team as well as all of our employees are focused on finishing 2011 on a strong note and are excited about Range's prospects for the future."
is an independent natural gas company operating in the Appalachia and Southwest regions of the United States.
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Except for historical information, statements made in this release, including those relating to anticipated results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and Range's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the results of our hedging transactions, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates, environmental risks and regulatory changes. Range undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in Range's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), which are incorporated by reference.
 
 
2011-34
SOURCE: Range Resources Corporation
Investor Contacts:
Rodney Waller, Senior Vice President
817-869-4258
David Amend, Investor Relations Manager
817-869-4266
Laith Sando, Senior Financial Analyst
817-869-4267
or
Media Contact:
Matt Pitzarella, Director of Corporate Communications
724-873-3224
www.rangeresources.com


