FILE:RRC/RRC-8K-20120222105258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 21, 2012 Range Resources Corporation issued a press release announcing its 2011 results. A copy of this press release is being furnished as an exhibit to this report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 22, 2012
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
today announced its 2011 financial results. Reported GAAP net income for 2011 increased to $58 million ($0.36 per diluted share) versus a net loss of $239 million ($1.52 loss per diluted share) for 2010. Net cash provided from operating activities including changes in working capital totaled $632 million, a 23% increase over the prior year result of $513 million. Results were driven by higher production volumes and lower unit costs.
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, FEBRUARY 21, 2012RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
Adjusted net income comparable to analysts' estimates, a non-GAAP measure, was $176 million ($1.11 per diluted share) for 2011, almost double the prior year amount of $89 million ($0.56 per diluted share). Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital, a non-GAAP measure, increased 28% to $737 million versus $577 million for the previous year. Comparing these amounts to analysts' average First Call consensus estimates, the Company's earnings per share ($1.11 per diluted share) exceeded the consensus of analysts' estimates of $1.06 per diluted share. Cash flow per share ($4.62 per diluted share) for the year also exceeded the consensus analysts' estimates of $4.30 per diluted share. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a definition of each of these non-GAAP financial measures and tables that reconcile each of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
As previously reported, production for 2011 averaged 554 Mmcfe per day, a 12% increase over 2010. Excluding production from our Barnett properties which were sold at the end of April 2011, production growth was 36%. Fourth quarter 2011 production volumes averaged 625 Mmcfe per day, a record high for Range. Fourth quarter 2011 production increased 16% over the prior-year period (including our Barnett Shale production) and was 16% higher than third quarter 2011.
Proved reserves increased 14% year-over-year to 5.1 Tcfe. Without giving effect to the sale of the Barnett properties, the year-over-year proved reserve increase would have been 43%. All-in finding and development cost averaged $0.89 per mcfe, with all-in reserve replacement of 850%. Drill bit only finding cost averaged $0.76 per mcfe. Production and reserve growth per share, on a debt-adjusted basis, reached 12% in 2011, representing the sixth consecutive year of double-digit per-share growth for both production and reserves. Range's unrisked unproved resource potential at year-end 2011 increased to 4460 Tcfe up from 3552 Tcfe at year-end 2010.
Commenting, Jeff Ventura, the Company's President and CEO, said, "Range had an outstanding 2011. Despite selling the Barnett properties which at the time, contributed over 20% of our production and resources, we again achieved double-digit per share (debt-adjusted) growth in production and reserves. Our growth was achieved at very low all-in finding cost of $0.89 per mcfe. This represents our sixth consecutive year of double-digit per share (debt-adjusted) growth in production and reserves. Consistent growth at low cost is directly related to the quality of our drilling inventory. We also are very pleased with our ability to continue to drive down our unit costs. In particular, the 38% year-over-year decrease in fourth quarter lease operating costs per mcfe is a significant achievement and reflects not only the low-cost nature of our properties but the "growth at low cost" focus of the entire Range team. Looking forward to 2012, we are in excellent position to continue to drive up per share value. The Barnett sale significantly strengthened our balance sheet, providing us $1.3 billion of liquidity at year-end 2011. Our excellent hedge position has over 70% of our 2012 natural gas production locked in at a floor price nearly 50% above the current market. Most importantly, we have a drilling inventory that generates attractive returns even in the current low natural gas price environment. Lastly, we have an extraordinary team of people focused on consistently delivering on our strategy of "growth at low cost"."
 
Financial Discussion
(Except for reported GAAP amounts, specific expense categories exclude non-cash property impairments, mark-to-market on unrealized derivatives, non-cash stock compensation and other items shown separately on attached tables but include the results associated with Barnett Shale properties combined with the reported continuing operations amounts. Effective with 2011 year-end reporting, the Company has reclassified only third party transportation, gathering and compression costs as a separate component of operating expenses which previously was included as a reduction of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil sales. Prior reported results have been similarly reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.)
Full Year 2011
(Reported GAAP amounts do not include the Barnett operations and reclassifies the Barnett operations as discontinued.) GAAP revenues for 2011 totaled $1.2 billion (28% increase as compared to 2010), GAAP net cash provided from operating activities including changes in working capital reached $632 million (23% increase) and GAAP earnings rose to $58 million versus a $239 million loss in 2010. The increase in net income was driven by a 36% increase in production and lower costs per mcfe. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for all cash-settled hedges and derivatives and net of transportation, gathering and compression costs averaged $5.68 per mcfe.
(Non-GAAP amounts combine the Barnett operations with the Company's other operations and makes certain adjustments to conform to analyst prepared estimates. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a definition of each of these non-GAAP financial measures and tables that reconcile each of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.) Non-GAAP revenues for 2011 totaled $1.3 billion (16% increase as compared to 2010), cash flow from operations before changes in working capital, a non-GAAP measure, increased 28% to $737 million and adjusted net income, a non-GAAP measure, was $176 million ($1.11 per diluted share) in 2011 versus a $89 million ($0.56 per diluted share) in 2010. The increase in net income was driven by a 12% increase in production, higher realized prices and lower costs per mcfe. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for all cash-settled hedges and derivatives and net of transportation, gathering and compression costs averaged $5.58 per mcfe. The cash margin per mcfe for 2011 averaged $3.59 per mcfe, a 15% increase over 2010. On a unit of production basis, the Company's costs continue to decline as the five largest cost categories decreased by $0.19 per mcfe or 4% in aggregate as compared to the prior year. Leading the way were direct operating expenses which averaged $0.60 per mcfe, a 16% decrease compared to the prior year. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense decreased 14% to $1.73 per mcfe.
Fourth Quarter
(Reported GAAP amounts do not include the Barnett operations and reclassifies the Barnett operations as discontinued.) GAAP revenues for the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled $300 million (34% increase as compared to fourth quarter 2010), GAAP net cash provided from operating activities including changes in working capital reached $218 million (93% increase) and GAAP earnings was a net loss of $3 million ($0.02 loss per diluted share) versus a net loss of $318 million ($2.02 loss per diluted share) in 2010. The increase in net income was driven by a 46% increase in production and lower costs per mcfe. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for all cash-settled hedges and derivatives and net of transportation, gathering and compression costs averaged $5.41 per mcfe.
(Non-GAAP amounts combine the Barnett operations with the Company's other operations and makes certain adjustments to conform to analyst prepared estimates. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a definition of each of these non-GAAP financial measures and tables that reconcile each of these non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.) Non-GAAP revenues for fourth quarter 2011 totaled $348 million (21% increase as compared to fourth quarter 2010), cash flow from operations before changes in working capital, a non-GAAP measure, increased 36% to $216 million and adjusted net income, a non-GAAP measure, was $53 million ($0.33 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter 2011 versus $30 million ($0.19 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter 2010. The increase in net income was driven by a 16% increase in production and lower costs per mcfe. Both cash flow ($1.35) and earnings ($0.33) per share exceeded analysts' estimates of $1.26 and $0.31 per share, respectively. Wellhead prices, after adjustment for all cash-settled hedges and derivatives and net of transportation, gathering and compression costs averaged $5.41 per mcfe and increase of 2%. Cash margins rose 18% to $3.69 per mcfe as compared to the fourth quarter in 2010. On a unit of production basis, the Company's five largest operating cost categories decreased by $0.41 per mcfe, or 9% as compared to the prior-year quarter. Direct operating expenses for the quarter were $0.45 per mcfe, a 38% decrease compared to the prior-year quarter. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense decreased 9% to $1.69 per mcfe.
 
Balance Sheet
During 2011, Range strengthened its balance sheet with the sale of its Barnett Shale and other miscellaneous properties for approximately $950 million. The sale proceeds were used to fully repay the outstanding balance on its bank credit facility. By the end of the third quarter, the production associated with the Barnett Shale sale had been fully replaced through the Company's drilling program. At year-end 2011, there was a $187 million outstanding balance on the credit facility, providing the Company $1.3 billion of liquidity.
Conference Call Information
A conference call to review the financial results is scheduled on Wednesday, February 22 at 1:00 p.m. ET. To participate in the call, please dial 877-407-0778 and ask for the Range Resources 2011 financial results conference call. A replay of the call will be available through March 31. To access the phone replay dial 877-660-6853. The account number is 286 and the conference ID is 381259.
A simultaneous webcast of the call may be accessed over the Internet at or The webcast will be archived for replay on the Company's website until March 31.
http://www.rangeresources.com/
http://www.vcall.com/.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
Adjusted net income comparable to analysts' estimates as set forth in this release represents income from operations before income taxes adjusted for certain non-cash items (detailed below and in the accompanying table) less income taxes. We believe adjusted net income comparable to analysts' estimates is calculated on the same basis as analysts' estimates and that many investors use this published research in making investment decisions useful in evaluating operational trends of the Company and its performance relative to other oil and gas producing companies. Diluted earnings per share (adjusted) as set forth in this release represents adjusted net income comparable to analysts' estimates on a diluted per share basis. A table is included which reconciles income from operations to adjusted net income comparable to analysts' estimates and diluted earnings per share (adjusted). On its website, the Company provides additional comparative information on prior periods.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as defined in this release represents net cash provided by operations before changes in working capital and exploration expense adjusted for certain non-cash compensation items. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is widely accepted by the investment community as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities and to service debt. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is also useful because it is widely used by professional research analysts in valuing, comparing, rating and providing investment recommendations of companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In turn, many investors use this published research in making investment decisions. Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operations, investing, or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity. A table is included which reconciles Net cash provided by operations to cash flow from operations before changes in working capital as used in this release. On its website, the Company provides additional comparative information on prior periods for cash flow, cash margins and non-GAAP earnings as used in this release.
The cash prices realized for oil and natural gas production including the amounts realized on cash-settled derivatives and net of transportation, gathering and compression expense is a critical component in the Company's performance tracked by investors and professional research analysts in valuing, comparing, rating and providing investment recommendations and forecasts of companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In turn, many investors use this published research in making investment decisions. Due to the GAAP disclosures of various derivative transactions and third party transportation, gathering and compression expense, such information is now reported in various lines of the income statement. The Company believes that it is important to furnish a table reflecting the details of the various components of each income statement line to better inform the reader of the details of each amount and provide a summary of the realized cash-settled amounts and third party transportation, gathering and compression expense which historically were reported as natural gas, NGLs and oil sales. This information will serve to bridge the gap between various readers' understanding and fully disclose the information needed.
Range has disclosed two primary metrics in this release to measure our ability to establish a long-term trend of adding reserves at a reasonable cost  a reserve replacement ratio and finding and development cost per unit. The reserve replacement ratio is an indicator of our ability to replace annual production volumes and grow
 
our reserves. It is important to economically find and develop new reserves that will offset produced volumes and provide for future production given the inherent decline of hydrocarbon reserves as they are produced. We believe the ability to develop a competitive advantage over other natural gas and oil companies is dependent on adding reserves in our core areas at lower costs than our competition. The reserve replacement ratio is calculated by dividing production for the year into the total of proved extensions, discoveries and additions, proved reserves added by performance and the reduction of reserves due to changes in prices as shown in the summary of changes in the proved reserves table.
Finding and development cost per unit is a non-GAAP metric used in the exploration and production industry by companies, investors and analysts. The calculations presented by the Company are based on costs incurred excluding asset retirement obligations and divided by proved reserve additions (extensions, discoveries and additions shown in the summary of changes in proved reserves table) adjusted for the changes in proved reserves for performance revisions and/or price revisions as stated in each instance in the release. This calculation does not include the future development costs required for the development of proved undeveloped reserves. The SEC method of computing finding costs contains additional cost components and results in a higher number. A reconciliation of the two methods is shown on our website at .
www.rangeresources.com
The reserve replacement ratio and finding and development cost per unit are statistical indicators that have limitations, including their predictive and comparative value. As an annual measure, the reserve replacement ratio can be limited because it may vary widely based on the extent and timing of new discoveries and the varying effects of changes in prices and well performance. In addition, since the reserve replacement ratio and finding and development cost per unit do not consider the cost or timing of future production of new reserves, such measures may not be an adequate measure of value creation. These reserves metrics may not be comparable to similarly titled measurements used by other companies.
Year-end pre-tax discounted present value is considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of pre-tax discounted present value is relevant and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account corporate future income taxes and our current tax structure. We further believe investors and creditors use pre-tax discounted present value as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves as compared with other companies. Range's pre-tax discounted present value as of December 31, 2011 may be reconciled to its standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2011 by reducing Range's pre-tax discounted present value by the discounted future income taxes associated with such reserves.
 
 
Range has disclosed a debt-adjusted per share metric in this release to measure per-share growth of production and reserves. This debt-adjusted metric keeps the debt-to-capitalization ratio unchanged during the calculation period. To achieve a constant debt-to-capitalization ratio, the share count is adjusted to increase/decrease equity from the actual end-of-year to the beginning of period level debt-to-cap. This adjustment is made by dividing the necessary increase/decrease in equity by the average common share price during the year for production (year-end price for reserves) to arrive at shares issued/repurchased. The production or reserves are then divided by this adjusted share count to reach the debt-adjusted per share results.
Hedging and Derivatives
In this news release, Range has reclassified within total revenues its financial reporting of the cash settlement of its commodity derivatives. Under this presentation those hedges considered "effective" under ASC 815 are included in "Natural gas, NGLs and oil sales" when settled. For those hedges designated to regions where the historical correlation between NYMEX and regional prices is "non-highly effective" or is "volumetric ineffective" due to sale of the underlying reserves, they are deemed to be "derivatives" and the cash settlements are included in a separate line item shown as "Derivative fair value income (loss)" in the consolidated statements of operations included in the Company's Form 10-K along with the change in mark-to-market valuations of such unrealized derivatives. The Company has provided additional information regarding natural gas, NGLs and oil sales in a supplemental table included with this release, which would correspond to amounts shown by analysts for natural gas, NGLs and oil sales realized, including cash-settled derivatives.
is a leading independent oil and natural gas producer with operations focused in Appalachia and the southwest region of the United States. The Company pursues an organic growth strategy targeting high return, low-cost projects within its large inventory of low risk, development drilling opportunities. The Company is headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. More information about Range can be found at and .
RANGE RESOURCES CORPORATION (NYSE: RRC)
http://www.rangeresources.com/
http://www.myrangeresources.com/
Except for historical information, statements made in this release such as consistent growth at low cost, drive up per share value, excellent hedge position and generates attractive returns are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information; however, management's assumptions and Range's future performance are subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the volatility of oil and gas prices, the results of our hedging transactions, the costs and results of drilling and operations, the timing of production, mechanical and other inherent risks associated with oil and gas production, weather, the availability of drilling equipment, changes in interest rates, litigation, uncertainties about reserve estimates and environmental risks. Range undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Further information on risks and uncertainties is available in Range's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), which are incorporated by reference.
 
The SEC permits oil and gas companies, in filings made with the SEC, to disclose proved reserves, which are estimates that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions as well as the option to disclose probable and possible reserves. Range has elected not to disclose the Company's probable and possible reserves in its filings with the SEC. Range uses certain broader terms such as "resource potential," or "unproved resource potential,""upside" and "EURs per well" or other descriptions of volumes of resources potentially recoverable through additional drilling or recovery techniques that may include probable and possible reserves as defined by the SEC's guidelines. Range has not attempted to distinguish probable and possible reserves from these broader classifications. The SEC's rules prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC these broader classifications of reserves. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being actually realized. Unproved resource potential refers to Range's internal estimates of hydrocarbon quantities that may be potentially discovered through exploratory drilling or recovered with additional drilling or recovery techniques and have not been reviewed by independent engineers. Unproved resource potential does not constitute reserves within the meaning of the Society of Petroleum Engineer's Petroleum Resource Management System and does not include proved reserves. Area wide unproven, unrisked resource potential has not been fully risked by Range's management. "EUR," or estimated ultimate recovery, refers to our management's internal estimates of per well hydrocarbon quantities that may be potentially recovered from a hypothetical future well completed as a producer in the area. These quantities do not necessarily constitute or represent reserves within the meaning of the Society of Petroleum Engineer's Petroleum Resource Management System or the SEC's oil and natural gas disclosure rules. Our management estimated these EURs based on our previous operating experience in the given area and publicly available information relating to the operations of producers who are conducting operating in these areas. Actual quantities that may be ultimately recovered from Range's interests will differ substantially. Factors affecting ultimate recovery include the scope of Range's drilling program, which will be directly affected by the availability of capital, drilling and production costs, commodity prices, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, transportation constraints, regulatory approvals, field spacing rules, recoveries of gas in place, length of horizontal laterals, actual drilling results, including geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates and other factors. Estimates of resource potential may change significantly as development of our resource plays provides additional data. In addition, our production forecasts and expectations for future periods are dependent upon many assumptions, including estimates of production decline rates from existing wells and the undertaking and outcome of future drilling activity, which may be affected by significant commodity price declines or drilling cost increases. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, available from our website at www.rangeresources.com or by written request to 100 Throckmorton Street, Suite 1200, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. You can also obtain this Form 10-K by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
2012-6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Based on GAAP reported earnings with additional
details of items included in each line in Form 10-K
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Restated for Barnett discontinued operations,
a non-GAAP presentation
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Restated for Barnett discontinued operations,
a non-GAAP presentation
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
(Unaudited, in thousands)
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH PROVIDED FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES, AS REPORTED, TO CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL, a non-GAAP measure
(Unaudited, in thousands)
 
ADJUSTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING
(Unaudited, in thousands)
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF NATURAL GAS, NGLs AND OIL SALES
AND DERIVATIVE FAIR VALUE INCOME (LOSS) TO
CALCULATED CASH REALIZED NATURAL GAS, NGLs AND OIL
PRICES WITH AND WITHOUT THIRD PARTY
TRANSPORTATION, GATHERING AND COMPRESSION FEES
non-GAAP measures
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per unit data)
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF NATURAL GAS, NGLs AND OIL SALES
AND DERIVATIVE FAIR VALUE INCOME (LOSS) TO
CALCULATED CASH REALIZED NATURAL GAS, NGLs AND OIL
PRICES WITH AND WITHOUT THIRD PARTY
TRANSPORTATION, GATHERING AND COMPRESSION FEES
non-GAAP measures
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per unit data)
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES
AS REPORTED TO INCOME FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES
EXCLUDING CERTAIN ITEMS, a non-GAAP measure
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data)
 
HEDGING POSITION AS OF FEBRUARY 20, 2012
(Unaudited)
 
 
 


