Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. A discussion of the Companys recently announced Transformation Plan to concentrate on two key global platform businesses, Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging, can be found on page 27 of Item 7. From 2001 through 2005, International Papers capital expenditures approximated $5.3 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and envi ronmental performance, lower costs and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2005 was approximately $1.2 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.2 billion in 2006. This amount is below our expected annual depreciation and amortization expense of $1.4 billion. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on page 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K/A and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth on pages 36 and 37 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Companys manufacturing capacities on page A 4 of Appendix II. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sells paper, packaging products, building materials and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through resellers and paper distributors, including our own merchant distribution network, and agents. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, packaging and supplies. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally. We market our U.S. production of lumber and plywood through independent distribution centers, as well as direct to the retail and industrial market. Specialty products are marketed through various channels of distribution. DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS The Companys principal products are described on pages 17 through 18 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) Brazil Uncoated Papers 447 461 447 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,419 1,409 1,352 U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 4,261 4,614 4,439 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 6,127 6,484 6,238 Coated Papers 2,109 2,173 2,113 Market Pulp (3) 1,588 1,422 1,379 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,061 2,821 2,264 European Container (Boxes) 1,073 1,049 1,031 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 1,041 1,064 1,088 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,175 4,934 4,383 Containerboard 1,937 2,090 1,946 Bleached Packaging Board 1,412 1,495 1,348 Kraft 608 605 606 Forest Products (In millions) Panels (sq. ft. 3/8 basis) 1,606 1,563 1,580 Lumber (board feet) 2,596 2,456 2,345 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Includes internal sales to mills. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, a regional center for applied forest research in Bainbridge, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has approximately a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies formed for the purpose of developing and commercializing improvements to increase growth rates and improve wood and pulp quality. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions; to process, equipment and product innovations; and to improve profits through tree generation and propagation research. Activities include studies on improved forest species and management; innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating 2 Table of Contents processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $63 million in 2005, $67 million in 2004, and $71 million in 2003. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 32 and 33 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 68,700 employees, 47,200 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 30,100 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 18,000 employees. Approximately 14,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW), the successor union to PACE, under individual location contracts. During 2005, new labor agreements were ratified at three paper mills, with one paper mill contract carrying over and settling in early 2006. During 2006, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at four paper mill operations including Franklin, Virginia; Riegelwood, North Carolina; Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina; and Terre Haute, Indiana. During 2005, 19 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2006, 35 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 33 non paper mill operations, five of which are carry overs from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 56, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Robert M. Amen, 56, president since 2003. Previously, Mr. Amen served as executive vice president responsible for the Companys paper business, technology and corporate marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Amen will retire from the Company on March 31, 2006. Newland A. Lesko, 60, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 61, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations and global sourcing. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. Michael J. Balduino, 55, senior vice president of the Company and president of our Shorewood subsidiary since 2000. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 54, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 57, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, he also is responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 49, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 59, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging since 2001. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. 3 Table of Contents Paul Herbert, 56, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communications papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 49, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Additionally, from 2000 to 2001, Mr. Kadien served as vice president fine papers. He joined International Paper in 1978. Andrew R. Lessin, 63, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. He joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 53, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president of IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 46, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 50, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing public affairs for the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 50, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Mary A. Laschinger, 45, vice president and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Changes in transportation costs. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that provide adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. 4 Table of Contents Competition. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our current operating segments, including the two key platform businesses under our previously announced Transformation Plan, uncoated papers and packaging. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulty, a failure to price our products competitively, competition from producers of substitute materials or other similar factors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. Product mix. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations (for example, by way of lack of order downtime) and our results could be negatively impacted. Pricing. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Also, delays in acceptance of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. Demand for our products. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and the results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change. For example, in 2005, Moodys downgraded our debt from Baa2 to Baa3. Pension and health care costs. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. Natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. Changes in international conditions. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China and South Korea, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are developing countries subject to economic and political instability. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN Ability to accomplish the Transformation Plan. On July 19, 2005, the Company announced a three part plan (the Transformation Plan) to transform its business portfolio to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareholders. The Transformation Plan includes narrowing the Companys business portfolio to two key global platform businesses: uncoated papers (including the xpedx distribution business) and packaging. Among the uncertainties that exist to completing the Transformation Plan are uncertainties relating to the Companys ability to divest or spin off the businesses under evaluation as well as the timing, terms and net proceeds of any such transactions. Impact of the Transformation Plan on the Companys relationships with its employees. The Company has taken steps to incent and retain employees during the transformation, and has entered into retention agreements with certain key employees who would not remain with the Company if their respective businesses are sold. 5 Table of Contents Ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the Transformation Plan. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit initiatives, including ongoing supply chain and overhead initiatives and volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS Unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. Results of legal proceedings. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and, through licenses and forest management agreements, maintained harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. A discussion of possible sales or spin offs of segments or potentially all of the Companys U.S. forestlands under the Companys Transformation Plan can be found on page 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) Brazil Uncoated Papers 447 461 447 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,419 1,409 1,352 U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 4,261 4,614 4,439 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 6,127 6,484 6,238 Coated Papers 2,109 2,173 2,113 Market Pulp (3) 1,588 1,422 1,379 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,061 2,821 2,264 European Container (Boxes) 1,073 1,049 1,031 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 1,041 1,064 1,088 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,175 4,934 4,383 Containerboard 1,937 2,090 1,946 Bleached Packaging Board 1,412 1,495 1,348 Kraft 608 605 606 Forest Products (In millions) Panels (sq. ft. 3/8 basis) 1,606 1,563 1,580 Lumber (board feet) 2,596 2,456 2,345 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Includes internal sales to mills. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, a regional center for applied forest research in Bainbridge, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has approximately a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies formed for the purpose of developing and commercializing improvements to increase growth rates and improve wood and pulp quality. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions; to process, equipment and product innovations; and to improve profits through tree generation and propagation research. Activities include studies on improved forest species and management; innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating 2 Table of Contents processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $63 million in 2005, $67 million in 2004, and $71 million in 2003. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 32 and 33 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 68,700 employees, 47,200 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 30,100 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 18,000 employees. Approximately 14,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW), the successor union to PACE, under individual location contracts. During 2005, new labor agreements were ratified at three paper mills, with one paper mill contract carrying over and settling in early 2006. During 2006, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at four paper mill operations including Franklin, Virginia; Riegelwood, North Carolina; Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina; and Terre Haute, Indiana. During 2005, 19 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2006, 35 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 33 non paper mill operations, five of which are carry overs from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 56, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Robert M. Amen, 56, president since 2003. Previously, Mr. Amen served as executive vice president responsible for the Companys paper business, technology and corporate marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Amen will retire from the Company on March 31, 2006. Newland A. Lesko, 60, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 61, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations and global sourcing. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. Michael J. Balduino, 55, senior vice president of the Company and president of our Shorewood subsidiary since 2000. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 54, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 57, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, he also is responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 49, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 59, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging since 2001. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. 3 Table of Contents Paul Herbert, 56, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communications papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 49, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Additionally, from 2000 to 2001, Mr. Kadien served as vice president fine papers. He joined International Paper in 1978. Andrew R. Lessin, 63, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. He joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 53, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president of IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 46, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 50, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing public affairs for the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 50, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Mary A. Laschinger, 45, vice president and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Changes in transportation costs. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that provide adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. 4 Table of Contents Competition. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our current operating segments, including the two key platform businesses under our previously announced Transformation Plan, uncoated papers and packaging. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulty, a failure to price our products competitively, competition from producers of substitute materials or other similar factors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. Product mix. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations (for example, by way of lack of order downtime) and our results could be negatively impacted. Pricing. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Also, delays in acceptance of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. Demand for our products. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and the results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change. For example, in 2005, Moodys downgraded our debt from Baa2 to Baa3. Pension and health care costs. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. Natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. Changes in international conditions. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China and South Korea, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are developing countries subject to economic and political instability. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN Ability to accomplish the Transformation Plan. On July 19, 2005, the Company announced a three part plan (the Transformation Plan) to transform its business portfolio to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareholders. The Transformation Plan includes narrowing the Companys business portfolio to two key global platform businesses: uncoated papers (including the xpedx distribution business) and packaging. Among the uncertainties that exist to completing the Transformation Plan are uncertainties relating to the Companys ability to divest or spin off the businesses under evaluation as well as the timing, terms and net proceeds of any such transactions. Impact of the Transformation Plan on the Companys relationships with its employees. The Company has taken steps to incent and retain employees during the transformation, and has entered into retention agreements with certain key employees who would not remain with the Company if their respective businesses are sold. 5 Table of Contents Ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the Transformation Plan. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit initiatives, including ongoing supply chain and overhead initiatives and volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS Unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. Results of legal proceedings. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and, through licenses and forest management agreements, maintained harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. A discussion of possible sales or spin offs of segments or potentially all of the Companys U.S. forestlands under the Companys Transformation Plan can be found on page 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 68,700 employees, 47,200 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 30,100 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 18,000 employees. Approximately 14,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW), the successor union to PACE, under individual location contracts. During 2005, new labor agreements were ratified at three paper mills, with one paper mill contract carrying over and settling in early 2006. During 2006, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at four paper mill operations including Franklin, Virginia; Riegelwood, North Carolina; Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina; and Terre Haute, Indiana. During 2005, 19 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2006, 35 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 33 non paper mill operations, five of which are carry overs from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 56, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Robert M. Amen, 56, president since 2003. Previously, Mr. Amen served as executive vice president responsible for the Companys paper business, technology and corporate marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Amen will retire from the Company on March 31, 2006. Newland A. Lesko, 60, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 61, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations and global sourcing. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. Michael J. Balduino, 55, senior vice president of the Company and president of our Shorewood subsidiary since 2000. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 54, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 57, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, he also is responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 49, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 59, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging since 2001. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. 3 Table of Contents Paul Herbert, 56, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communications papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 49, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Additionally, from 2000 to 2001, Mr. Kadien served as vice president fine papers. He joined International Paper in 1978. Andrew R. Lessin, 63, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. He joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 53, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president of IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 46, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 50, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing public affairs for the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 50, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Mary A. Laschinger, 45, vice president and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Changes in transportation costs. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that provide adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. 4 Table of Contents Competition. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our current operating segments, including the two key platform businesses under our previously announced Transformation Plan, uncoated papers and packaging. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulty, a failure to price our products competitively, competition from producers of substitute materials or other similar factors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. Product mix. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations (for example, by way of lack of order downtime) and our results could be negatively impacted. Pricing. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Also, delays in acceptance of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. Demand for our products. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and the results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change. For example, in 2005, Moodys downgraded our debt from Baa2 to Baa3. Pension and health care costs. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. Natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. Changes in international conditions. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China and South Korea, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are developing countries subject to economic and political instability. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN Ability to accomplish the Transformation Plan. On July 19, 2005, the Company announced a three part plan (the Transformation Plan) to transform its business portfolio to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareholders. The Transformation Plan includes narrowing the Companys business portfolio to two key global platform businesses: uncoated papers (including the xpedx distribution business) and packaging. Among the uncertainties that exist to completing the Transformation Plan are uncertainties relating to the Companys ability to divest or spin off the businesses under evaluation as well as the timing, terms and net proceeds of any such transactions. Impact of the Transformation Plan on the Companys relationships with its employees. The Company has taken steps to incent and retain employees during the transformation, and has entered into retention agreements with certain key employees who would not remain with the Company if their respective businesses are sold. 5 Table of Contents Ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the Transformation Plan. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit initiatives, including ongoing supply chain and overhead initiatives and volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS Unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. Results of legal proceedings. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and, through licenses and forest management agreements, maintained harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. A discussion of possible sales or spin offs of segments or potentially all of the Companys U.S. forestlands under the Companys Transformation Plan can be found on page 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Changes in transportation costs. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that provide adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. 4 Table of Contents Competition. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our current operating segments, including the two key platform businesses under our previously announced Transformation Plan, uncoated papers and packaging. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulty, a failure to price our products competitively, competition from producers of substitute materials or other similar factors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. Product mix. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations (for example, by way of lack of order downtime) and our results could be negatively impacted. Pricing. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Also, delays in acceptance of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. Demand for our products. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and the results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change. For example, in 2005, Moodys downgraded our debt from Baa2 to Baa3. Pension and health care costs. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. Natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. Changes in international conditions. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China and South Korea, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are developing countries subject to economic and political instability. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN Ability to accomplish the Transformation Plan. On July 19, 2005, the Company announced a three part plan (the Transformation Plan) to transform its business portfolio to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareholders. The Transformation Plan includes narrowing the Companys business portfolio to two key global platform businesses: uncoated papers (including the xpedx distribution business) and packaging. Among the uncertainties that exist to completing the Transformation Plan are uncertainties relating to the Companys ability to divest or spin off the businesses under evaluation as well as the timing, terms and net proceeds of any such transactions. Impact of the Transformation Plan on the Companys relationships with its employees. The Company has taken steps to incent and retain employees during the transformation, and has entered into retention agreements with certain key employees who would not remain with the Company if their respective businesses are sold. 5 Table of Contents Ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the Transformation Plan. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit initiatives, including ongoing supply chain and overhead initiatives and volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS Unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. Results of legal proceedings. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and, through licenses and forest management agreements, maintained harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. A discussion of possible sales or spin offs of segments or potentially all of the Companys U.S. forestlands under the Companys Transformation Plan can be found on page 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS Changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. Changes in transportation costs. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that provide adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. 4 Table of Contents Competition. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our current operating segments, including the two key platform businesses under our previously announced Transformation Plan, uncoated papers and packaging. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulty, a failure to price our products competitively, competition from producers of substitute materials or other similar factors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. Product mix. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations (for example, by way of lack of order downtime) and our results could be negatively impacted. Pricing. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Also, delays in acceptance of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. Demand for our products. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and the results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change. For example, in 2005, Moodys downgraded our debt from Baa2 to Baa3. Pension and health care costs. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. Natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. Changes in international conditions. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China and South Korea, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are developing countries subject to economic and political instability. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Changes in currency exchange rates. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN Ability to accomplish the Transformation Plan. On July 19, 2005, the Company announced a three part plan (the Transformation Plan) to transform its business portfolio to improve returns, strengthen the balance sheet and return cash to shareholders. The Transformation Plan includes narrowing the Companys business portfolio to two key global platform businesses: uncoated papers (including the xpedx distribution business) and packaging. Among the uncertainties that exist to completing the Transformation Plan are uncertainties relating to the Companys ability to divest or spin off the businesses under evaluation as well as the timing, terms and net proceeds of any such transactions. Impact of the Transformation Plan on the Companys relationships with its employees. The Company has taken steps to incent and retain employees during the transformation, and has entered into retention agreements with certain key employees who would not remain with the Company if their respective businesses are sold. 5 Table of Contents Ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the Transformation Plan. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit initiatives, including ongoing supply chain and overhead initiatives and volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS Unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. Results of legal proceedings. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and, through licenses and forest management agreements, maintained harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. A discussion of possible sales or spin offs of segments or potentially all of the Companys U.S. forestlands under the Companys Transformation Plan can be found on page 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. During 2005, the Companys U.S. forestlands supplied 12.7 million tons of roundwood to its U.S. facilities, representing approximately 20% of its wood fiber requirements. The balance of our fiber requirements come from residual chips supplied by our Wood Products operations, other chips purchased from other suppliers, and from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the U. S. government. In addition, in 2005, 3.4 million tons of wood were sold to other users. As one of the largest private landowners in the world, International Paper employs professional foresters and wildlife biologists to manage our forestlands with great care in compliance with the rigorous standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative program (SFITM). SFITM includes an independent certification system to ensure the sustainable planting, growing and harvesting of trees while protecting wildlife, plants, soil, water and air quality. All of our U.S. forestlands are certified as complying with SFITM standards by an independent third party, and most of our forestlands outside of the United States comply with similar local or regional sustainable forestry programs as well. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continuously examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2006 on page 26, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2005, on pages 15 and 16 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 51 through 57 of 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY International Papers operating results in 2005 were strongly impacted by significantly higher costs for energy, wood, caustic soda and other raw materials which reduced operating profits compared with 2004 by $586 million. Lower sales volumes were also a negative factor versus 2004 as we took a significant amount of lack of order downtime in our U.S. uncoated paper and containerboard mills, and downtime in our Eastern European operations to rebuild paper machines in Poland and Russia to add needed uncoated paper and paperboard capacity. We were able to partially offset some of these negative impacts through operational improvements in our manufacturing operations, improved average pricing for our paper and packaging grades, a more favorable product mix, and higher earnings from forestland and real estate sales. Looking forward to 2006, we expect operating profits for the first quarter to be flat with the 2005 fourth quarter. Sales volumes should be seasonally slow in the quarter, but should show some improvement as the quarter progresses. Price realizations should also improve as previously announced price increases are implemented. While energy, wood and raw material price movements are mixed, their impact for the quarter is expected to be flat. However, we see favorable signs of positive momentum for the remainder of 2006. We anticipate that demand in North America for both uncoated paper and industrial packaging products will be stronger, and that we will realize 2005 fourth quarter and 2006 first quarter announced price increases. Additionally, operating rates should improve in 2006 reflecting announced industry capacity reductions in uncoated papers and containerboard. We are also starting to see some reductions in natural gas and southern wood costs that, if the trend continues, should benefit operations as the year progresses. In connection with our overall strategic direction, we are evaluating options for the possible sale or spin off of certain of our businesses as previously announced in our Transformation Plan, with decisions on certain businesses anticipated during 2006. We also will continue to improve our key operations in North America by realigning our uncoated and packaging mill operations to reduce costs, improve our products and improve our overall profitability. Results of Operations Industry segment operating profits are used by International Papers management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management believes that this measure allows a better understanding of trends in costs, operating efficiencies, prices and volumes. Industry segment operating profits are defined as earnings before taxes and minority interest, interest expense, corporate items and corporate special items. Industry segment operating profits are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a non GAAP financial measure, and are not GAAP alternatives to net income or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. International Paper operates in six segments: Printing Papers, Industrial Packaging, Consumer Packaging, Distribution, Forest Products, and Specialty Businesses and Other. The following table shows the components of net earnings (loss) for each of the last three years: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Industry segment operating profits $ 1,923 $ 2,040 $ 1,734 Corporate items (597 ) (469 ) (466 ) Corporate special items* (147 ) (142 ) (281 ) Interest expense, net (593 ) (710 ) (705 ) Minority interest (12 ) (21 ) (80 ) Income tax benefit (provision) 285 (242 ) 56 Discontinued operations 241 (491 ) 57 Accounting changes (13 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 * Special items include restructuring and other charges, net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale, insurance recoveries and reversals of reserves no longer required. Industry segment operating profits were $117 million lower in 2005 due principally to the impact of higher energy and raw material costs ($586 million), lower sales volume ($251 million), and unfavorable foreign currency translation rates ($27 million) which more than offset the benefits from higher average prices ($478 million), cost reduction initiatives, improved operating performance and a more favorable product mix ($235 million), and higher earnings from land sales ($158 million). The impact of divestitures ($32 million), principally the Fine Papers and Industrial Papers businesses, and other items ($36 million) also had a negative impact in 2005. Segment Operating Profit (in millions) 11 Table of Contents The principal changes in operating profit by segment were as follows: Printing Papers profits were $29 million lower as the impacts of higher energy and raw material costs, lower sales volume and unfavorable foreign currency translation rates more than offset the effects of higher average sales prices, improved sales mix and lower operating and overhead costs. Industrial Packagings profits were down by $150 million reflecting higher energy and raw material costs, lower sales volume, an unfavorable mix of products sold and the impact of the sale of the Industrial Papers business. These effects were somewhat offset by benefits from higher sales prices. Consumer Packagings profits were $35 million lower as the impacts of higher energy and raw material costs and lower sales volume more than offset contributions from higher sales prices and lower operating and overhead costs. Forest Products profits were $134 million higher. Increased earnings from land sales, an improved product mix and lower overhead costs more than offset the effect of higher energy and raw material costs, lower harvest volumes and special items. Distributions profits were $3 million lower in 2005 than in 2004. Corporate items of $597 million of expense in 2005 were higher than the $469 million in 2004 and $466 million in 2003 due to higher pension and supply chain initiative costs and increased inventory related costs, partially offset by lower overhead costs. Corporate special items, including restructuring and other charges, losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale, insurance recoveries and reversals of reserves no longer required, increased to $147 million from $142 million in 2004, but were lower than the $281 million in 2003. The increase in 2005 versus 2004 reflects an increase in restructuring charges, relating principally to our Transformation Plan, offset by higher insurance recoveries relating to hardboard siding and roofing matters. Compared with 2003, the decrease reflects higher insurance recoveries and lower losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in 2005. Interest expense, net, of $593 million in 2005 includes a pre tax credit of $43 million related to an agreement reached with the Internal Revenue Service concerning the Companys 1997 through 2000 federal income tax audits, and a pre tax credit of $11 million related to the collection of a note receivable from the 2001 sale of the Flexible Packaging business. Excluding these items, interest expense, net, of $647 million decreased from $710 million in 2004 and $705 million in 2003 reflecting lower average debt balances from debt refinancing and repayments in 2004 and 2005. The 2005 income tax benefit of $285 million includes a $446 million tax benefit related to 2005 tax special items. The $242 million tax provision in 2004 included a $32 million tax provision related to tax special items. The tax benefit of $56 million in 2003 included $110 million of benefits related to special items occurring in 2003. See Income Taxes on pages 14 and 15 for a further discussion of these items. During the 2005 third quarter, International Paper completed the sale of the Carter Holt Harvey Limited business. During 2004, International Paper completed the sale of its Weldwood of Canada Limited business in the fourth quarter. The operating results of these businesses and the gains or losses on the sales are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Accounting changes included a charge of $13 million in 2003 for the adoption of new accounting pronouncements regarding asset retirement obligations and variable interest entities. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended December 31, 2005, International Paper generated $1.5 billion of cash flow from continuing operations, down from $2.1 billion in 2004. Capital spending from continuing operations for the year totaled $1.2 billion, or 84% of depreciation and amortization expense. We repaid approximately $1.7 billion of debt during the year, including various higher coupon rate debt, that will result in lower interest charges in future years. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $3.2 billion of unused, committed credit facilities that we believe are adequate to meet future short term liquidity requirements. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our focus in 2006 will be to continue to maximize our financial flexibility and preserve liquidity while further reducing our long term debt as our previously announced Transformation Plan progresses. Capital spending for 2006 is targeted at $1.2 billion, or about 80% of depreciation and amortization. Transformation Plan In July 2005, International Paper announced a Transformation Plan to focus on two key global platform businesses: Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging. In connection with this plan, the Company is exploring strategic alternatives for other businesses including Coated and Supercalendered Papers, Beverage Packaging, Kraft Papers, Arizona Chemical, Wood Products, and segments or potentially all of its 6.5 million acres of U.S. forestlands. This evaluation process is underway, with decisions anticipated for some of these businesses in 2006. While the exact use of any proceeds from potential future sales is dependent upon various factors, the Company remains committed to using its free cash flow in 2006 to pay down debt, to return value to shareholders, and for selective high return investments. 12 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Accounting Estimates Accounting policies that may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and financial position, and that can require judgments by management in their application, include accounting for contingent liabilities, impairments of long lived assets and goodwill, pensions and postretirement benefit obligations and income taxes. In recent years, the assumption estimates used for pensions have resulted in increases in reported pension charges. Pension expenses for our U.S. plans increased to $243 million in 2005 from $111 million in 2004 due principally to an increase in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses and a reduction in the assumed discount rate. A further increase of approximately $130 million is expected in 2006, reflecting a change in the mortality assumption to use a more recent mortality table, an increase in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses and a further reduction in the assumed discount rate. Our pension funding policy continues to be to fully fund actuarially determined costs, generally equal to the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Unless changes are made to our funding policy, it is unlikely that any contributions to our U.S. qualified plan will be required in 2006. Funding requirements in later years will depend upon current pending legislation, investment performance and changes in discount rates. Legal Payments relating to the hardboard exterior siding class action settlement exceeded our projections for the year, but payments related to the other two class actions continue to be in line with projections made in 2002. The Company settled with all of its insurance carriers, except one, related to the hardboard siding claims, and settled all but one of the small opt out cases in the linerboard antitrust litigation. Additional information on these and other matters is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. CORPORATE OVERVIEW While the operating results for International Papers various business segments are driven by a number of business specific factors, changes in International Papers operating results are closely tied to changes in general economic conditions in the United States, Europe, South America and Asia. Factors that impact the demand for our products include industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, new home construction and repair and remodeling activity, and movements in currency exchange rates. Product prices also tend to follow general economic trends, and are also affected by inventory levels, currency movements and changes in worldwide operating rates. In addition to these revenue related factors, net earnings are impacted by various cost drivers, the more significant of which include changes in raw material costs, principally wood fiber and chemical costs, energy costs, salary and benefits costs, including pensions, and manufacturing conversion costs. The following is a discussion of International Papers results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the major factors affecting these results compared to 2004 and 2003. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For the year ended December 31, 2005, International Paper reported net sales of $24.1 billion, compared with $23.4 billion in 2004 and $22.1 billion in 2003. International net sales (including U.S. exports) totaled $5.7 billion, or 24% of total sales in 2005. This compares to international net sales of $5.7 billion in 2004 and $5.4 billion in 2003. Full year 2005 net income totaled $1.1 billion ($2.21 per share), compared with a net loss of $35 million ($0.07 per share) in 2004 and a net income of $302 million ($0.63 per share) in 2003. Amounts include results of discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes. Earnings from continuing operations in 2005 were $859 million compared with $456 million in 2004 and $258 million in 2003. However, included in earnings from continuing operations in 2005 was an incremental benefit of $497 million compared with 2004 from the special items discussed on pages 15 and 16. Excluding this benefit, earnings in 2005 were $94 million lower than in 2004. This decline was driven by higher energy and raw material costs, lower sales volumes, and higher corporate and other charges, principally pension and supply chain initiative costs, that more than offset the positive effects of higher sales prices, cost reduction initiatives, improved mill operations, increased earnings from land sales and lower interest expense. See Industry Segment Results on pages 18 through 23 for a discussion of the impact of these factors by segment. Earnings From Continuing Operations (after tax, in millions) 13 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of International Papers net earnings (loss) to its operating profit: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Net Earnings (Loss) $1,100 $(35 ) $302 Add back (deduct): Discontinued operations: Loss (earnings) from operations 120 (130 ) (57 ) (Gain) loss on sales or impairments (361 ) 621 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 13 Earnings From Continuing Operations 859 456 258 Add back (deduct): Income tax provision (benefit) (285 ) 242 (56 ) Add back: Minority interest expense, net of taxes 12 26 83 Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 586 724 285 Interest expense, net 593 710 705 Minority interest included in operations (5 ) (3 ) Corporate items 597 469 466 Special items: Restructuring and other charges 298 166 286 Insurance recoveries (258 ) (123 ) Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale 111 135 34 Reversals of reserves no longer required, net (4 ) (36 ) (39 ) $1,923 $2,040 $1,734 Industry Segment Operating Profit Printing Papers $552 $581 $464 Industrial Packaging 230 380 264 Consumer Packaging 126 161 183 Distribution 84 87 80 Forest Products 927 793 720 Specialty Businesses and Other 4 38 23 Total Industry Segment Operating Profit $1,923 $2,040 $1,734 Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes During the 2005 third quarter, the sale of the Companys majority share of Carter Holt Harvey Limited (CHH) was completed resulting in a $361 million after tax gain. This amount, together with an $80 million net charge principally reflecting that portion of a third quarter agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service that relates to CHH, is included in earnings from discontinued operations. In the fourth quarter of 2004, International Paper sold its Weldwood of Canada Limited (Weldwood) business for approximately $1.1 billion. As a result of the sale, a $323 million pre tax loss on the sale was recorded ($711 million after taxes) as a discontinued operations charge. In the 2004 second quarter, a $90 million after tax and minority interest discontinued operations gain was recorded from the sale of the Carter Holt Harvey Tissue business. Prior period results have been restated to present the operating results of these businesses as earnings from discontinued operations, including a net loss of $120 million in 2005, and earnings of $130 million and $57 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $120 million net loss in 2005 includes charges of $98 million for the CHH portion of an audit agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, and charges related to cash repatriations from non U.S. subsidiaries related to CHH. Net earnings for 2003 included after tax charges of $3 million and $10 million for the cumulative effect of accounting changes for the adoption of the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, respectively. Income Taxes The Company recorded an income tax benefit for 2005 of $285 million, including a $446 million net tax benefit related to special items, consisting of a tax benefit of $627 million resulting from an agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audit, a $142 million charge for deferred taxes related to earnings repatriations under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and $39 million of other tax charges. Excluding the impact of special items, the tax provision was $203 million, or 27.5% of pre tax earnings before minority interest. The income tax provision for 2004 was $242 million, or 33% of pre tax earnings from continuing operations before minority interest. This included a $32 million tax provision related to an adjustment of deferred tax balances. Excluding the impact of special 14 Table of Contents items, the tax provision was $226 million, or 26% of pre tax earnings before minority interest. While the Company reported pre tax income in 2003, a net income tax benefit of $56 million was recorded reflecting decreases totaling $110 million in the provision for income taxes for special items. These included a $60 million reduction in the third quarter reflecting a favorable revision of estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2002 federal income tax return and increased research and development credits, and a $50 million reduction in the second quarter reflecting a favorable tax audit settlement and benefits from a government sponsored overseas tax program. Excluding the year to date tax effects of special items, the effective tax rate for 2003 was 26%. Corporate Items and Interest Expense Minority interest expense, net of taxes, decreased to $12 million in 2005 compared with $26 million in 2004 and $83 million in 2003. The decreases in 2005 and 2004 reflect a reduction in minority interest related to preferred securities that were replaced by debt obligations in 2004 and 2003. Interest expense, net, of $593 million includes a pre tax credit of $43 million for interest related to the agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the Companys 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, and a pre tax credit of $11 million related to the collection of a note receivable from the 2001 sale of the Flexible Packaging business. Excluding these items, interest expense, net, of $647 million decreased from $710 million in 2004 and $705 million in 2003 reflecting lower average debt balances and lower interest rates from debt refinancing and repayments in 2005 and 2004. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, corporate items totaled $597 million of expense compared with $469 million in 2004 and $466 million in 2003. The increased expenses in 2005 compared with both 2004 and 2003 are due to higher pension, supply chain initiative and inventory related costs, offset in part by lower overhead administrative costs. Lower gains from energy hedging transactions were also a factor in 2005 and 2004. Our supply chain initiative, begun in late 2002, is a corporate wide project to improve customer service capabilities and implement best practice supply chain business processes for order management, supply and demand planning, product scheduling and tracking, transportation and warehousing, and procurement. Expenses related to this program in 2006 should be approximately $50 million above 2005 levels. The associated benefits are reflected in business earnings as the programs are implemented. SPECIAL ITEMS Restructuring and Other Charges International Paper continually evaluates its operations for improvement opportunities targeted to (a) focus our portfolio on our core businesses, (b) rationalize and realign capacity to operate fewer facilities with the same revenue capability and close high cost facilities, and (c) reduce costs. Annually, strategic operating plans are developed by each of our businesses to demonstrate that they will achieve a return at least equal to their cost of capital over an economic cycle. If it subsequently becomes apparent that a facilitys plan will not be achieved, a decision is then made to (a) invest additional capital to upgrade the facility, (b) shut down the facility and record the corresponding charge, or (c) evaluate the expected recovery of the carrying value of the facility to determine if an impairment of the asset value of the facility has occurred under SFAS No. 144. In recent years, this policy has led to the shutdown of a number of facilities and the recording of significant asset impairment charges and severance costs. It is possible that additional charges and costs will be incurred in future periods in our core businesses should such triggering events occur. 2005: During 2005, total restructuring and other charges of $358 million before taxes ($225 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $274 million charge before taxes ($174 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, principally costs associated with the Companys previously announced Transformation Plan, a $57 million charge before taxes ($35 million after taxes) for early debt extinguishment costs and a $27 million charge before taxes ($16 million after taxes) for litigation settlements. Charges of $298 million relating to Corporate programs are included as Corporate items, with $60 million of business specific charges included in the respective businesss operating results. Earnings also included a $258 million pre tax credit ($151 million after taxes) for net insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, and a $4 million credit before taxes ($3 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer required. Additionally, included in interest income was a credit of $54 million before taxes ($33 million after taxes), which included $43 million before taxes ($26 million after taxes) related to a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, and $11 million before taxes ($7 million after taxes) related to the collection of a note from the 2001 Flexible Packaging business sale. 2004: During 2004, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $166 million ($103 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $64 million 15 Table of Contents charge before taxes ($40 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a $92 million charge before taxes ($57 million after taxes) for early debt retirement costs, and a $10 million charge before taxes ($6 million after taxes) for a litigation settlement. Also in 2004, a $123 million credit before taxes ($76 million after taxes) was recorded for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, and a $36 million credit before taxes ($22 million after taxes) was recorded for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer required. 2003: During 2003, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $286 million ($180 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $224 million charge before taxes ($140 million after taxes) for asset shutdowns of excess internal capacity and cost reduction actions, a $63 million charge before taxes ($39 million after taxes) for legal reserves, and a $1 million credit before taxes ($1 million charge after taxes) for early debt retirement costs. In addition, a $39 million credit before taxes ($24 million after taxes) was recorded for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer required. A further discussion of restructuring, business improvement and other charges can be found in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For management purposes, we report the operating performance of each business based on earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) excluding special and extraordinary items, gains or losses on sales of businesses and cumulative effects of accounting changes. Intersegment sales and transfers are recorded at current market prices. External Sales by Major Product is determined by aggregating sales from each segment based on similar products or services. External sales are defined as those that are made to parties outside International Papers consolidated group, whereas sales by segment in the Net Sales table are determined by the management approach and include intersegment sales. Capital Spending by Industry Segment is reported on page 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Prior year industry segment information has been restated to conform to the 2005 management structure and to reflect the Carter Holt Harvey Limited and Weldwood of Canada Limited businesses as discontinued operations. INFORMATION BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT NET SALES In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 7,860 $ 7,670 $ 7,280 Industrial Packaging 4,935 4,830 4,170 Consumer Packaging 2,590 2,605 2,465 Distribution 6,380 6,065 5,860 Forest Products 2,575 2,395 2,390 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 915 1,120 1,235 Corporate and Intersegment Sales (1,158 ) (1,326 ) (1,262 ) Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 ASSETS In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 9,033 $ 9,171 $ 8,953 Industrial Packaging 4,259 4,184 3,845 Consumer Packaging 2,647 2,681 2,649 Distribution 1,624 1,515 1,458 Forest Products (b) 2,973 3,068 3,324 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 652 652 626 Corporate and other (c) 7,583 12,946 14,670 Assets $ 28,771 $ 34,217 $ 35,525 OPERATING PROFIT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 552 $ 581 $ 464 Industrial Packaging 230 380 264 Consumer Packaging 126 161 183 Distribution 84 87 80 Forest Products 927 793 720 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 4 38 23 Operating Profit 1,923 2,040 1,734 Interest expense, net (593 ) (710 ) (705 ) Minority interest (d) 5 3 Corporate items, net (597 ) (469 ) (466 ) Restructuring and other charges (298 ) (166 ) (286 ) Insurance recoveries 258 123 Reversals of reserves no longer required 4 36 39 Net gains (losses) on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale (111 ) (135 ) (34 ) Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes, Minority Interest and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes $ 586 $ 724 $ 285 36 Table of Contents RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 26 $ $ 26 Industrial Packaging 4 2 Consumer Packaging 1 28 Distribution 7 Forest Products (e) 16 31 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 13 69 Corporate 298 166 123 Restructuring and Other Charges $ 358 $ 166 $ 286 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (f) In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 693 $ 700 $ 682 Industrial Packaging 240 241 230 Consumer Packaging 166 164 166 Distribution 19 17 14 Forest Products (g) 101 111 119 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 31 27 25 Corporate 126 97 111 Depreciation and Amortization $ 1,376 $ 1,357 $ 1,347 EXTERNAL SALES BY MAJOR PRODUCT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 6,971 $ 6,486 $ 6,069 Industrial Packaging 4,900 4,617 4,040 Consumer Packaging 2,796 2,715 2,580 Distribution 6,389 6,306 6,191 Forest Products 2,340 2,559 2,522 Other (h) 701 676 736 Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 (a) Includes Arizona Chemical and certain other smaller businesses identified in the Companys divestiture program. (b) Includes $2.2 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.6 billion for Forest Resources, and $739 million, $693 million and $710 million for Wood Products, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (c) Includes corporate assets and assets of discontinued operations. (d) Operating profits for industry segments include each segments percentage share of the profits of subsidiaries included in that segment that are less than wholly owned. The pre tax minority interest for these subsidiaries is added here to present consolidated earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interest, extraordinary items, and cumulative effect of accounting changes. INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA NET SALES (i) In millions 2005 2004 2003 United States (j) $ 19,886 $ 19,167 $ 18,138 Europe 2,809 3,056 2,928 Pacific Rim 328 216 208 Americas, other than U.S. 1,074 920 864 Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 EUROPEAN SALES BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 1,364 $ 1,370 $ 1,291 Industrial Packaging 851 869 804 Consumer Packaging 21 22 18 Distribution 1 2 9 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 572 793 806 European Sales $ 2,809 $ 3,056 $ 2,928 LONG LIVED ASSETS (k) In millions 2005 2004 2003 United States $ 11,218 $ 11,764 $ 12,102 Europe 1,474 1,489 1,334 Americas, other than U.S. 875 718 629 Asia 142 114 98 Corporate 282 288 307 Long Lived Assets $ 13,991 $ 14,373 $ 14,470 (e) Includes $10 million for Forest Resources and $6 million for Wood Products in 2005, and $31 million for Wood Products in 2003. (f) Includes cost of timber harvested. (g) Includes $51 million, $60 million and $74 million for Forest Resources, and $50 million, $50 million and $45 million for Wood Products, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (h) Includes sales of products not included in our major product lines. (i) Net sales are attributed to countries based on location of seller. (j) Export sales to unaffiliated customers were $1.5 billion in 2005, $1.5 billion in 2004 and $1.4 billion in 2003. (k) Long Lived Assets includes Forestlands and Plants, Properties and Equipment, net. 37 Table of Contents REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The management of International Paper Company is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in this annual report and for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America considered appropriate in the circumstances to present fairly the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows on a consistent basis. Management has also prepared the other information in this annual report and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the consolidated financial statements. As can be expected in a complex and dynamic business environment, some financial statement amounts are based on estimates and judgments. Even though estimates and judgments are used, measures have been taken to provide reasonable assurance of the integrity and reliability of the financial information contained in this annual report. We have formed a Disclosure Committee to oversee this process. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been audited by the independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP. During their audits, Deloitte & Touche LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of stockholders and the board of directors and all committees of the board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audits were valid and appropriate. INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of International Paper Company is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting including the safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition. These controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the board of directors regarding preparation of reliable published financial statements and such asset safeguarding. All internal control systems have inherent limitations, including the possibility of circumvention and overriding of controls, and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance as to such financial statement preparation and asset safeguarding. The system is supported by written policies and procedures, contains self monitoring mechanisms, and is audited by the internal audit function. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct deficiencies as they are identified. The Company has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, it used the criteria described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2005, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is effective. International Paper completed the acquisition of a majority share of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), a leading Moroccan corrugated packaging company, on October 14, 2005. Due to the timing of the acquisition, we have excluded CMCP from our evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. For the period ended December 31, 2005, sales and assets of CMCP represented less than 1% of total revenues and less than 1% of total assets. The Companys independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued their report on managements assessment and a report on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. The report appears on pages 40 and 41. INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERSIGHT Our internal control environment includes an enterprise wide attitude of integrity and control consciousness that establishes a positive tone at the top. This is exemplified by our ethics program that includes long standing principles and policies on ethical business conduct that require employees to maintain the highest ethical and legal standards in the conduct of International Paper business, which have been distributed to all employees; a toll free telephone helpline whereby any employee may anonymously report suspected violations of law or International Papers policy; and an office of ethics and business practice. The internal control system further includes careful selection and training of supervisory and management personnel, appropriate delegation of authority and division of responsibility, dissemination of accounting and business policies throughout International Paper, and an extensive program of internal audits with management follow up. The Board of Directors, assisted by the Audit and Finance Committee (Committee), monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements and financial reporting procedures, the performance of the Companys internal audit function and independent auditors, and other matters set forth in its charter. The Committee, which currently consists of four independent directors, meets regularly with representatives of management, and with the independent auditors 38 Table of Contents and the Internal Auditor, with and without management representatives in attendance, to review their activities. The Committees Charter takes into account the New York Stock Exchange rules relating to Audit Committees and the SEC rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. A copy of the charter will be included in the Companys Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders in 2006. The Committee has reviewed and discussed the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, including critical accounting policies and significant management judg ments, with management and the independent auditors. The Committees report recommending the inclusion of such financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A will be set forth in our Proxy Statement. JOHN V. FARACI CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MARIANNE M. PARRS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 39 Table of Contents REPORT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM, ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Shareholders of International Paper Company: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of International Paper Company and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of operations, changes in shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Paper Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. New York, N.Y. March 2, 2006  REPORT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM, ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING To the Shareholders of International Paper Company: We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, that International Paper Company and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in the Report of Management on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from their assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), which was acquired on October 14, 2005, and whose financial statements reflect less than 1% of total assets and total revenues, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at CMCP. The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally 40 Table of Contents accepted in the United States. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, managements assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 of the Company and our reports dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule. New York, N.Y. March 2, 2006  41 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS In millions, except per share amounts, for the years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 NET SALES $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 COSTS AND EXPENSES Cost of products sold 18,139 17,225 16,443 Selling and administrative expenses 1,876 1,935 1,888 Depreciation, amortization and cost of timber harvested 1,376 1,357 1,347 Distribution expenses 1,087 1,026 954 Taxes other than payroll and income taxes 233 236 235 Restructuring and other charges 358 166 286 Insurance recoveries (258 ) (123 ) Net losses on sales and impairments of businessesheld for sale 111 139 34 Reversals of reserves no longer required, net (4 ) (36 ) (39 ) Interest expense, net 593 710 705 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONSBEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY INTEREST 586 724 285 Income tax provision (benefit) (285 ) 242 (56 ) Minority interest expense, net of taxes 12 26 83 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 859 456 258 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 241 (491 ) 57 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (10 ) Variable interest entities (3 ) NET EARNINGS (LOSS) $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 BASIC EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE Earnings from continuing operations $ 1.77 $ 0.94 $ 0.54 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 0.49 (1.01 ) 0.12 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (0.02 ) Variable interest entities (0.01 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 2.26 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 DILUTED EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE Earnings from continuing operations $ 1.74 $ 0.93 $ 0.53 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 0.47 (1.00 ) 0.13 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (0.02 ) Variable interest entities (0.01 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 2.21 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 42 Table of Contents International Paper Company CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET In millions at December 31 2005 2004 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and temporary investments $ 1,641 $ 2,180 Accounts and notes receivable, less allowances of $110 in 2005 and $124 in 2004 2,926 2,743 Inventories 2,434 2,371 Assets of businesses held for sale 14 4,729 Deferred income tax assets 279 410 Other current assets 115 153 Total Current Assets 7,409 12,586 Plants, Properties and Equipment, net 11,801 12,216 Forestlands 2,190 2,157 Investments 625 655 Goodwill 5,043 4,994 Deferred Charges and Other Assets 1,703 1,609 Total Assets $ 28,771 $ 34,217 LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Notes payable and current maturities of long term debt $ 1,181 $ 222 Accounts payable 2,085 2,026 Accrued payroll and benefits 425 425 Liabilities of businesses held for sale 36 3,165 Other accrued liabilities 1,117 1,496 Total Current Liabilities 4,844 7,334 Long Term Debt 11,023 13,632 Deferred Income Taxes 726 1,118 Other Liabilities 3,616 3,691 Minority Interest 211 188 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Note 10 Common Shareholders Equity Common stock, $1 par value, 2005 490.5 shares, 2004 487.5 shares 491 487 Paid in capital 6,627 6,562 Retained earnings 3,172 2,562 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,935 ) (1,357 ) 8,355 8,254 Less: Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 2005 0.1 shares 4 Total Common Shareholders Equity 8,351 8,254 Total Liabilities and Common Shareholders Equity $ 28,771 $ 34,217 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 43 Table of Contents International Paper Company CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In millions for the years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net earnings (loss) $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes 13 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest (241 ) 491 (57 ) Earnings from continuing operations 859 456 258 Depreciation, amortization and cost of timber harvested 1,376 1,357 1,347 Tax benefit non cash settlement of tax audits (627 ) Deferred income tax benefit, net (38 ) (78 ) (336 ) Restructuring and other charges 358 166 286 Insurance recoveries (258 ) (123 ) Payments related to restructuring and legal reserves (185 ) (220 ) (252 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required, net (4 ) (36 ) (39 ) Periodic pension expense, net 243 111 60 Proceeds on Maine timberlands transaction 242 Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale 111 139 34 Other, net 234 138 182 Changes in current assets and liabilities Accounts and notes receivable 17 (62 ) 87 Inventories (16 ) (69 ) 51 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (629 ) 49 (117 ) Other 37 (4 ) (32 ) Cash provided by operations continuing operations 1,478 2,066 1,529 Cash provided by operations discontinued operations 32 322 293 Cash Provided by Operations 1,510 2,388 1,822 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Invested in capital projects Continuing operations (1,155 ) (1,176 ) (993 ) Businesses sold and held for sale (17 ) (37 ) (38 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (116 ) (186 ) Proceeds from divestitures 1,440 867 71 Other 73 300 (184 ) Cash provided by (used for) investment activities continuing operations 225 (232 ) (1,144 ) Cash (used for) provided by investment activities discontinued operations (218 ) 287 (123 ) Cash Provided by (Used for) Investment Activities 7 55 (1,267 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Issuance of common stock 23 164 80 Issuance of debt 968 2,536 2,116 Reduction of debt (2,670 ) (4,219 ) (641 ) Redemption of preferred securities of a subsidiary (550 ) Change in book overdrafts 4 (145 ) 104 Dividends paid (490 ) (485 ) (480 ) Sale of minority interest 150 Other (40 ) (68 ) 7 Cash (used for) provided by financing activities continuing operations (2,205 ) (2,217 ) 786 Cash used for financing activities discontinued operations (172 ) (218 ) (195 ) Cash (Used For) Provided By Financing Activities (2,377 ) (2,435 ) 591 Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash Continuing Operations (90 ) 111 74 Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash Discontinued Operations (5 ) 114 69 Change in Cash and Temporary Investments (955 ) 233 1,289 Cash and Temporary Investments Beginning of the year 2,596 2,363 1,074 End of the year 1,641 2,596 2,363 Less Cash, End of Year Discontinued Operations (416 ) (105 ) Cash, End of Year Continuing Operations $ 1,641 $ 2,180 $ 2,258 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to separately disclose the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 44 Table of Contents International Paper Company INTERNATIONAL PAPER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY In millions, except share and per share amounts in thousands Common StockIssued Paid in Capital Retained Earnings AccumulatedOtherComprehensive Income(Loss) (1) Treasury Stock TotalCommonShareholders Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount BALANCE, JANUARY 1, 2003 484,760 $ 485 $ 6,493 $ 3,260 $ (2,645 ) 5,680 $ 219 $ 7,374 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 402 7 (2,725 ) (105 ) 112 Repurchase of stock 713 26 (26 ) Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (480 ) (480 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net earnings 302 302 Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $94) 150 150 Non U.S. plans (less tax of $2) (4 ) (4 ) Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $51) 808 808 Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $38) 66 66 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $36) (65 ) (65 ) Total comprehensive income 1,257 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2003 485,162 485 6,500 3,082 (1,690 ) 3,668 140 8,237 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 2,333 2 62 (3,652 ) (140 ) 204 Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (485 ) (485 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net loss (35 ) (35 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $20) 33 33 Non U.S. plans (less tax of $5) 1 1 Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $17) 255 255 Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $19) 70 70 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $13) (26 ) (26 ) Total comprehensive income 298 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2004 487,495 487 6,562 2,562 (1,357 ) 16 8,254 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 3,006 4 65 96 4 65 Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (490 ) (490 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net earnings 1,100 1,100 Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $189) (304 ) (304 ) Non U.S. plans (less tax of $5) (1 ) (1 ) Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $22) (251 ) (251 ) Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $14) 46 46 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $30) (68 ) (68 ) Total comprehensive income 522 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2005 490,501 $ 491 $ 6,627 $ 3,172 $ (1,935 ) 112 $ 4 $ 8,351 (1) The cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (in millions) was $(280), $(29) and $(284) at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 45 Table of Contents NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF BUSINESS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS International Paper is a global forest products, paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in the United States, Europe, South America and Asia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to available industry capacity and general economic conditions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that require the use of managements estimates. Actual results could differ from managements estimates. CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of International Paper and its wholly owned, controlled majority owned and financially controlled subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Investments in affiliated companies are accounted for by the equity method, including companies owned 20% to 50%. International Papers share of affiliates earnings totaled $17 million, $14 million and $4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognized when the customer takes title and assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment for terms designated f.o.b. (free on board) shipping point. For sales transactions designated f.o.b. destination, revenue is recorded when the product is delivered to the customers delivery site, when title and risk of loss are transferred. Timber and timberland sales revenue is generally recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the buyer. SHIPPING AND HANDLING COSTS Shipping and handling costs, such as freight to our customers destinations, are included in distribution expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. When shipping and handling costs are included in the sales price charged for our products, they are recognized in net sales. ANNUAL MAINTENANCE COSTS Annual maintenance costs for major planned maintenance shutdowns (in excess of $1 million) are expensed ratably over the year in which the maintenance shutdowns occur since the Company believes that operations benefit throughout the year from the maintenance work performed. These costs, including manufacturing variances and out of pocket costs that are directly related to the shutdown, are fully expensed in the year of the shutdown, with no amounts remaining deferred at year end. Other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS Temporary investments with an original maturity of three months or less are treated as cash equivalents and are stated at cost, which approximates market. INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market and include all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. In the United States, costs of raw materials, finished lumber and panels and finished pulp and paper products are generally determined using the last in, first out method. Other inventories are valued using the first in, first out or average cost methods. PLANTS, PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT Plants, properties and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for betterments are capitalized, whereas normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. The units of production method of depreciation is used for major pulp and paper mills and certain wood products facilities, and the straight line method is used for other plants and equipment. Annual straight line depreciation rates are, for buildings 2 1/2% to 8 1/2%, and, for machinery and equipment 5% to 33%. FORESTLANDS At December 31, 2005, International Paper and its subsidiaries owned or managed about 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. Forestlands include owned property as well as certain timber harvesting rights with terms of one or more years, and are stated at cost, less cost of timber harvested (COTH). Costs attributable to timber are charged against income as trees are cut. The rate charged is determined annually based on the relationship of incurred costs to estimated current merchantable volume. 46 Table of Contents GOODWILL Goodwill relating to a single business reporting unit is included as an asset of the applicable segment, while goodwill arising from major acquisitions that involve multiple business segments is classified as a corporate asset for segment reporting purposes. For goodwill impairment testing, this goodwill is allocated to business segments. Annual testing for possible goodwill impairment is performed as of the end of the third quarter of each year. No impairment charges were recorded in 2005 or 2004. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS Long lived assets are reviewed for impairment upon the occurrence of events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as measured by comparing their net book value to the projected undiscounted future cash flows generated by their use. Impaired assets are recorded at their estimated fair value. INCOME TAXES International Paper uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes whereby deferred income taxes are recorded for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are revalued to reflect new tax rates in the periods rate changes are enacted. International Paper records its worldwide tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which it operates. Where the Company believes that the deduction of an item is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is deducted in its income tax returns. However, where treatment of an item is uncertain, tax accruals are recorded based upon the expected most probable outcome taking into consideration the specific tax regulations and facts of each matter, the results of historical negotiated settlements, and the results of consultations with outside specialists. These accruals are recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the reserves are only made when an identifiable event occurs that changes the probable outcome, such as a settlement with the relevant tax authority, the expiration of statutes of limitation for the subject tax year, a change in tax laws, or a recent court case that addresses the matter. While the Company believes that these judgments and estimates are appropriate and reasonable under current circumstances, actual resolution of these matters may differ from recorded estimated amounts. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION Stock options and other stock based compensation awards are accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. Had compensation cost for International Papers stock based compensation programs been determined consistent with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, its net earnings, earnings per common share and earnings per common share assuming dilution would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated in the following table: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Net Earnings (Loss) As reported $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 Pro forma 1,043 (73 ) 258 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share As reported $ 2.26 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 Pro forma 2.15 (0.15 ) 0.54 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share assuming dilution As reported $ 2.21 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 Pro forma 2.10 (0.15 ) 0.54 The effect on 2005, 2004 and 2003 pro forma net earnings, earnings per common share and earnings per common share assuming dilution of expensing the estimated fair market value of stock options is not necessarily representative of the effect on reported earnings for future years due to the vesting period of stock options and decreases in the number of options outstanding due to the elimination of the Companys stock option program for all U.S. employees in 2005. ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION COSTS Costs associated with environmental remediation obligations are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations are discounted to their present value when the amount and timing of expected cash payments are reliably determinable. 47 Table of Contents ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, a liability and an asset are recorded equal to the present value of the estimated costs associated with the retirement of long lived assets where a legal or contractual obligation exists and the liability can be reasonably estimated. The liability is accreted over time and the asset is depreciated over the life of the related equipment or facility. International Papers asset retirement obligations under this standard relate to closure costs for landfills. Revisions to the liability could occur due to changes in the estimated costs or timing of closures, or possible new federal or state regulations affecting these closures. TRANSLATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheets of international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at year end exchange rates, while statements of operations are translated at average rates. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). See Note 13 related to derivatives and hedging activities. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. Certain prior year amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to separately disclose the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations. NOTE 2 EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes are computed by dividing earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, assuming dilution, were computed assuming that all potentially dilutive securities, including in the money stock options, were converted into common shares at the beginning of each year. In addition, the computation of diluted earnings per share reflects the inclusion of contingently convertible securities in periods when dilutive. A reconciliation of the amounts included in the computation of earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, and earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, assuming dilution, is as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 859 $ 456 $ 258 Effect of dilutive securities 27 Earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes assuming dilution $ 886 $ 456 $ 258 Average common shares outstanding 486.0 485.8 479.6 Effect of dilutive securities Restricted shares 0.8 Stock options 2.9 2.6 1.5 Contingently convertible debt 20.0 Average common shares outstanding assuming dilution 509.7 488.4 481.1 Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1.77 $ 0.94 $ 0.54 Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes assuming dilution $ 1.74 $ 0.93 $ 0.53 Note: If an amount does not appear in the above table, the security was antidilutive for the period presented. NOTE 3 INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION Financial information by industry segment and geographic area for 2005, 2004 and 2003 is presented on pages 36 and 37. NOTE 4 RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS ACCOUNTING CHANGES AND ERROR CORRECTIONS: In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. This Statement does not change the transition 48 Table of Contents provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements, including those that are in a transition phase as of the effective date of the Statement. ACCOUNTING FOR CONDITIONAL ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS: In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. This Interpretation clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB Statement No. 143 refers to the fact that a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists to make a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation. International Paper adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the fourth quarter of 2005 with no material affect on its consolidated financial statements. The Companys principal conditional asset retirement obligations relate to the potential future closure or redesign of certain of its production facilities. In connection with any such activity, it is possible that the Company may be required to take steps to remove certain materials from the facilities, or to remediate in accordance with federal and state laws that govern the handling of certain hazardous or potentially hazardous materials. Applicable regulations and standards provide that the removal of certain materials would only be required if the facility were to be demolished or underwent major renovations. At this time, any such obligations have an indeterminate settlement date, and the Company believes that adequate information does not exist to apply an expected present value technique to estimate any such potential obligations. Accordingly, the Company does not record a liability for such remediation until a decision is made that allows reasonable estimation of the timing of such remediation. IMPLICIT VARIABLE INTERESTS: In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN 46(R) 5, Implicit Variable Interests Under FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. This FSP states that implicit variable interests are implied financial interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the entitys net assets exclusive of variable interests. An implicit variable interest acts the same as an explicit variable interest except it involves the absorbing and (or) receiving of variability indirectly from the entity (rather than directly). The identification of an implicit variable interest is a matter of judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances. International Paper applied the provisions of FSP FIN 46(R) 5 in the second quarter of 2005, with no material affect on its consolidated financial statements. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES: In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP Financial Accounting Standards 109 1 and 109 2 relating to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act provides for a special one time deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. In 2005, International Paper repatriated $2.1 billion in cash from certain of its foreign subsidiaries, including amounts eligible for this special deduction. International Paper recorded income tax expenses associated with these cash repatriations totaling approximately $142 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. SHARE BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS: In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, that will require compensation costs related to share based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the compensation cost will be measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. In addition, liability awards will be remeasured each reporting period. Compensation cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the award. This Statement will apply to all awards granted after the required effective date and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) deferred the effective date of this Statement until the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1 and 17 for a further discussion of stock options. EXCHANGES OF NONMONETARY ASSETS: In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, that replaces the exception from fair value measurement in APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets with a general exception from fair value measurement for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. This Statement is to be applied prospectively and is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. 49 Table of Contents International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 153 in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. INVENTORY COSTS: In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. This Statement requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material be recognized as current period charges. This Statement also introduces the concept of normal capacity and requires the allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. Unallocated overhead must be recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. This Statement will be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ACCOUNTING FOR MEDICARE BENEFITS: In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP FAS 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, that provides guidance on the accounting and required disclosures for the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. International Paper adopted FSP FAS 106 2 prospectively in the third quarter of 2004. See Note 16 for a further discussion. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES: In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. This Interpretation changed existing consolidation rules for certain entities, those in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance the entitys activities without additional subordinated financial support. International Paper applied FIN 46(R) to its variable interest entities in 2003 and, consequently, recorded a non cash, after tax charge of $3 million as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. NOTE 5 ACQUISITIONS On July 1, 2004, International Paper completed the acquisition of Box USA Holdings, Inc. (Box USA). The operating results of Box USA are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from that date. International Paper acquired all of the outstanding common and preferred stock of Box USA for approximately $189 million in cash and a $15 million 6% note payable issued to Box USAs controlling shareholders. In addition, International Paper assumed approximately $197 million of debt, approximately $193 million of which was repaid by July 31, 2004. The note payable is required to be paid unless claims for indemnification are offset against the note. Subsequent claims for indemnification totaling $5.5 million reduced the note payable to $9.5 million plus interest payable. The first installment of $3 million plus interest was paid in the third quarter of 2005. The remaining installments to be paid are $2 million in 2006 and $4.5 million in 2009, subject to any additional claims for indemnification. The following table summarizes the assets and liabilities assumed at the date of the Box USA acquisition: In millions July 1, 2004 Current assets $98 Property, plant and equipment, net 90 Goodwill 260 Other assets 51 Total assets acquired 499 Current liabilities 97 Debt 197 Other liabilities 6 Total liabilities assumed 300 Net assets acquired $199 The following unaudited pro forma information for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, presents the combined results of the continuing operations of International Paper and Box USA as if the acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2003. This pro forma information does not purport to represent International Papers actual results of operations if the transaction described above would have occurred on January 1, 2003, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results. In millions, except per share amounts, for the years endedDecember 31, 2004 2003 Net sales $ 23,613 $ 22,631 Earnings from continuing operations 461 263 Net (loss) earnings (30 ) 307 Earnings from continuing operations per common share 0.94 0.55 Net (loss) earnings per common share assuming dilution (0.06 ) 0.64 OTHER ACQUISITIONS: In October 2005, International Paper acquired approximately 65% of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), a leading Moroccan corrugated 50 Table of Contents packaging company, for approximately $80 million in cash plus assumed debt of approximately $40 million. In 2001, International Paper and Carter Holt Harvey Limited (CHH) each acquired a 25% interest in International Paper Pacific Millennium Limited (IPPM). IPPM is a Hong Kong based distribution and packaging company with operations in China and other Asian countries. On August 1, 2005, pursuant to an existing agreement, International Paper purchased a 50% third party interest in IPPM (now renamed International Paper Distribution Limited) for $46.1 million to facilitate possible further growth in Asia. The financial position and results of operations of these two acquisitions have been included in International Papers consolidated financial statements from the dates of acquisition in 2005. The accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 includes preliminary estimates of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, including approximately $50 million of goodwill. NOTE 6 RESTRUCTURING, BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AND OTHER CHARGES This footnote discusses restructuring, business improvement and other charges recorded for each of the three years included in the period ended December 31, 2005. It includes a summary of activity for each year, a roll forward associated with severance and other cash costs arising in each year, a table presenting details of the 2005 and 2004 organizational restructuring programs, and tables showing quarterly charges by business along with explanations for 2003. 2005: During 2005, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $358 million ($225 million after taxes) were recorded. Included in this charge were a pre tax charge of $274 million ($174 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, principally costs associated with the Companys previously announced Transformation Plan, a pre tax charge of $57 million ($35 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt, and a $27 million pre tax charge ($16 million after taxes) for legal reserves. Also recorded were pre tax credits of $258 million ($151 million after taxes) for net insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation (see Note 10) and a $4 million pre tax credit ($3 million after taxes) for the net adjustment of previously provided reserves. In addition, a $446 million net reduction of the income tax provision was recorded, including a credit of $627 million from an agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a $142 million charge related to cash repatriations from non U.S. subsidiaries, and $39 million of other tax charges. Interest expense, net, also includes a $43 million pre tax credit ($26 million after taxes) relating to the tax audit agreement. The following table presents a detail of the $274 million corporate wide organizational restructuring charge by business: In millions SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter Total Printing Papers $17 (a) $17 (c) $150 (e) $184 Industrial Packaging 4 10 14 Consumer Packaging 1 1 2 Forest Products 14 (b) 2 14 (f) 30 Distribution 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other 13 (d) 13 Corporate 7 20 (g) 27 $31 $44 $199 $274 (a) Includes charges for severance and other charges for the indefinite shutdown of three U.S. paper machines. (b) Includes charges associated with the relocation of the Forest Products headquarters from Savannah, Georgia to Memphis, Tennessee. (c) Includes $6 million of additional severance charges related to the indefinite shutdown of the three U.S. paper machines. (d) Represents charges related to the shutdown of a plant in Norway. (e) Includes charges of $50 million related to the shutdown of paper machines at Jay, Maine, Bastrop, Louisiana, and Pensacola, Florida, and a charge of $95 million to write down the assets of the Bastrop, Louisiana mill to their estimated net realizable value of $105 million. (f) Includes $10 million of charges related to the closure of the Joplin, Missouri facility, and $2 million of charges related to the relocation of the Forest Products headquarters from Savannah, Georgia to Memphis, Tennessee. (g) Includes $2 million of charges related to the relocation of International Papers headquarters from Stamford, Connecticut to Memphis, Tennessee, and $12 million of transformation costs. 51 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the organizational restructuring charge discussed above: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers $153 $31 $184 Industrial Packaging 4 10 14 Consumer Packaging 2 2 Forest Products 6 24 30 Distribution 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other 7 6 13 Corporate 27 27 $170 $104 $274 The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2005 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (second quarter 2005) $29 Additions (third quarter 2005) 25 Additions (fourth quarter 2005) 50 2005 Activity Cash charges (54 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (10 ) Balance, December 31, 2005 $40 The severance charges recorded in 2005 related to 855 employees. As of December 31, 2005, 661 employees had been terminated. 2004: During 2004, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $166 million ($103 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $64 million charge before taxes ($40 million after taxes) for a corporate wide organizational restructuring program, a $92 million charge before taxes ($57 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt and a $10 million charge before taxes ($6 million after taxes) for legal settlements. In addition, credits of $123 million before taxes ($76 million after taxes) for net insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation and $36 million before taxes ($22 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer needed were recorded. Also, a $32 million charge was recorded for an adjustment of deferred tax balances. The following table presents a detail of the $64 million corporate wide organizational restructuring program charge in 2004, by business: In millions FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter Total Printing Papers $1 $1 $5 $7 Industrial Packaging 1 1 5 7 Consumer Packaging 4 2 1 7 Forest Products 4 1 5 Distribution 2 2 3 7 Specialty Businesses and Other 11 11 Administrative Support Groups 2 14 4 20 $14 $32 $18 $64 The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2004 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (first quarter 2004) $14 Additions (second quarter 2004) 32 Additions (third quarter 2004) 18 2004 Activity Cash charges (42 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (22 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ The severance charges recorded in 2004 related to 744 employees. As of December 31, 2004, 616 employees had been terminated and 128 employees retained. Actual pension and postretirement costs exceeded estimates despite the lower number of employees terminated. 2003: During 2003, restructuring and other charges of $286 million before taxes ($180 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $224 million charge before taxes ($140 million after taxes) for asset shutdowns of excess internal capacity and cost reduction actions, a $63 million charge before taxes ($39 million after taxes) for legal reserves, and a $1 million credit before taxes ($1 million charge after taxes) for early debt retirement costs. In addition, a $39 million credit before taxes ($24 million after taxes) was recorded for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer required. 52 Table of Contents The $224 million charge in 2003 for the asset shutdowns of excess internal capacity and cost reduction actions consisted of a $80 million charge in the fourth quarter, a $71 million charge in the third quarter, a $51 million charge in the second quarter, and a $22 million charge in the first quarter. The fourth quarter charge included $45 million of asset write downs and $35 million of severance and other charges. The third quarter charge included $9 million of asset write downs and $62 million of severance and other charges. The second quarter charge consisted of $16 million of asset write downs and $35 million of severance and other charges. The first quarter charge included $2 million of asset write downs and $20 million of severance and other charges. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 fourth quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers (a) $19 $2 $21 Consumer Packaging (b) 16 6 22 Forest Products (c) 10 1 11 Distribution (d) 3 3 Administrative Support Groups (e) 23 23 $45 $35 $80 (a) The Printing Papers business recorded a charge of $5 million to write off certain assets at the Courtland, Alabama and Franklin, Virginia mills. Management also approved a $14 million charge to write down the assets of the Maresquel, France mill to its net realizable value of approximately $5 million. The Printing Papers business also recorded a charge of $2 million for severance costs relating to 42 employees associated with a manufacturing excellence program. (b) The Consumer Packaging business recorded an additional charge of $22 million in conjunction with the closure of the Rolark manufacturing facility in Toronto, Canada, and a rationalization plan implemented in the second quarter of 2003. Closure costs for Rolark consisted of an $8 million charge to write down assets to their salvage value, $3 million of severance costs covering the termination of 178 employees and other exit costs of $1 million. The charge also included an additional provision for the previously implemented commercial business rationalization initiative. These charges included $8 million to write down assets to their salvage value and $2 million of severance costs covering the termination of 153 employees. (c) The Forest Products business approved plans in the fourth quarter of 2003 to shut down the Tuskalusa lumber mill in Moundville, Alabama. Operations at this mill had been temporarily ceased in the second quarter of 2003. Charges associated with this shutdown included $10 million of asset write downs to salvage value and $1 million of other exit costs. (d) The Distribution business (xpedx) recorded a charge of $3 million to cover lease termination costs related to the Nationwide San Francisco, California facility that was vacated in the fourth quarter of 2003. (e) During the fourth quarter of 2003, International Paper implemented the second phase of the previously announced Overhead Reduction Program to improve competitive performance. Charges associated with this initiative included $23 million of severance costs covering the termination of 557 employees. The $23 million charge included: Printing Papers $6 million; Industrial and Consumer Packaging $7 million; Forest Products $5 million; Specialty Businesses and Other $1 million; and Corporate $4 million. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 third quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Administrative Support Groups (a) $ $38 $38 Specialty Businesses and Other (b) 9 24 33 $9 $62 $71 (a) During the third quarter of 2003, International Paper implemented the initial phase of an Overhead Reduction Program to improve competitive performance. Charges associated with this initiative included $37 million of severance costs covering the termination of 744 employees and other cash costs of $1 million. The $38 million charge included: Printing Papers $12 million; Industrial and Consumer Packaging $11 million; Distribution $2 million; Forest Products $6 million; Specialty Businesses $2 million; and Corporate $5 million. (b) Specialty Businesses recorded an additional charge of $33 million in connection with the July 15, 2003 shutdown of the Natchez, Mississippi mill. The charge included $9 million of asset write downs to salvage value, $1 million of severance costs covering the termination of 20 employees, $20 million of environmental closure costs and other cash costs of $3 million. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 second quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers (a) $3 $2 $5 Consumer Packaging (b) 6 6 Forest Products (c) 13 7 20 Distribution (d) 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other (e) 16 16 $16 $35 $51 (a) The Printing Papers business recorded a charge of $2 million for severance costs relating to 19 employees associated with an 53 Table of Contents organizational restructuring initiative. The business also recorded an additional charge of $3 million to write off obsolete equipment. (b) The Consumer Packaging business implemented a rationalization plan at the Clifton and Englewood, New Jersey plants as a result of increased competition and slowing growth rates in key market segments. Management also approved a plan to exit leased space at the Montvale, New Jersey office in connection with the realignment of the Beverage Packaging and Foodservice businesses. Additionally, the Consumer Packaging business initiated an organizational restructuring program at several of its Bleached Board facilities. Charges associated with the programs included $2 million to cover the termination of 79 employees, lease termination costs of $3 million, and other cash costs of $1 million. (c) The Forest Products business approved plans to shut down the Springhill, Louisiana lumber facility and the Slaughter Industries Distribution Center in Portland, Oregon, and to temporarily cease operations at the Tuskalusa lumber mill in Moundville, Alabama. Charges associated with the shutdowns included $12 million of asset write downs to salvage value at Springhill and Slaughter, $5 million of severance costs covering the termination of 198 employees at all three facilities, and $1 million of other exit costs. Management also approved the closure of the Madison, New Hampshire lumber mill. Charges associated with this plan included $1 million to write down assets to their net realizable value and other cash costs of $1 million. (d) The Distribution business (xpedx) recorded a severance charge of $4 million covering the termination of 176 employees in a continuing effort to consolidate duplicative facilities and reduce ongoing operational expenses. (e) Specialty Businesses recorded a severance charge of $16 million associated with the termination of 447 employees in connection with the July 15th shutdown of the Natchez, Mississippi mill. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 first quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Industrial Packaging (a) $ $2 $2 Specialty Businesses and Other (b) 2 18 20 $2 $20 $22 (a) The Industrial Packaging business implemented a plan to reorganize the Creil and Mortagne locations in France into a single complex. Charges associated with the reorganization included $1 million for severance costs covering the termination of 31 employees and other cash costs of $1 million. (b) Arizona Chemical recorded a charge of $1 million for severance costs of 51 employees associated with the Valkeakoski, Finland plant closure. Chemical Cellulose implemented a plan to shut down the Natchez, Mississippi dissolving pulp mill by mid 2003. Charges associated with this shutdown included a $1 million charge to write down assets to their salvage value and $12 million of severance costs covering the termination of 141 employees in April and other employees to be terminated upon closure. Additional shutdown charges for severance and closure costs were recorded in the second and third quarters of 2003. Additionally, Industrial Papers approved a plan to restructure converting operations at the Kaukauna, Wisconsin facility, modify its release products organization and implement division wide productivity improvement actions. Charges associated with these plans included $1 million to write down assets to their salvage value and $5 million of severance costs covering the termination of 130 employees. The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2003 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (first quarter 2003) $20 Additions (second quarter 2003) 35 Additions (third quarter 2003) 62 Additions (fourth quarter 2003) 35 2003 Activity Cash charges (64 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (4 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required (3 ) 2004 Activity Cash charges (57 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (9 ) Environmental (13 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required (2 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ The severance charges recorded in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2003 related to 2,966 employees. As of December 31, 2004, 2,955 employees had been terminated and 11 employees retained. NOTE 7 BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE AND DIVESTITURES DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS: In the third quarter of 2005, International Paper completed the sale of its 50.5% interest in CHH to Rank Group Investments Ltd. for approximately U.S. $1.14 billion to be used principally to reduce debt. The pre tax gain on the sale of $29 million ($361 million 54 Table of Contents after taxes and minority interest), including a $186 million pre tax credit from cumulative translation adjustments, was included in Discontinued operations, together with CHHs operating results prior to the sale. Additionally, in May 2004, CHH sold its Tissue business. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, International Paper has restated all prior periods to present the operating results of CHH as a discontinued operation. Revenues associated with the discontinued operation were $1.7 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.3 billion for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Earnings and earnings per share related to CHH were as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation Earnings (loss) from operation $(32 ) $35 $46 Income tax (expense) benefit (96 ) 33 42 Minority interest (expense) benefit, net of taxes 8 (41 ) (40 ) Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation, net of taxes (120 ) 27 48 Gain on sale of CHH 29 Gain on sale of CHH Tissue business 268 Income tax benefit (expense) 332 (69 ) Minority interest expense, net of taxes (109 ) Gain on sale, net of taxes and minority interest 361 90 Earnings from discontinued operation, net of taxes and minority interest $241 $117 $48 Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation assuming dilution Earnings (loss) from operation, net of taxes $(0.24 ) $0.06 $0.11 Gain on sale, net of taxes and minority interest 0.71 0.19 Earnings per common share from discontinued operation, net of taxes and minority interest assuming dilution $0.47 $0.25 $0.11 Assets and liabilities of CHH, included in International Papers consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004, as Assets and Liabilities of businesses held for sale, were as follows: In millions 2004 Cash and temporary investments $416 Accounts receivable, net 251 Inventories 347 Plants, properties and equipment, net 1,216 Forestlands 1,779 Other assets 491 Assets of business held for sale $4,500 Notes payable and current maturities of long term debt $284 Accounts payable 253 Accrued payroll and benefits 67 Other accrued liabilities 17 Long term debt 500 Other liabilities 602 Minority interest 1,360 Liabilities of business held for sale $3,083 In the third quarter of 2004, International Paper entered into an agreement to sell its Weldwood of Canada Limited (Weldwood) business to West Fraser Timber Co., Ltd. of Vancouver, Canada (West Fraser), for approximately C$1.26 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments at closing. Accordingly, a $323 million pre tax loss on impairment ($711 million after taxes), including $182 million of pre tax credits from cumulative translation adjustments, was recorded in Discontinued operations to write down the assets of Weldwood to their estimated net realizable value upon sale, including the related tax effect. The Company completed the sale of Weldwood in the fourth quarter for C$1.23 billion. International Papers net cash proceeds received from the sale were approximately U.S. $1.1 billion. All periods presented have been restated to present the operating results of Weldwood as a discontinued operation. Revenues associated with this discontinued operation were $1.0 billion and $791 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively. 55 Table of Contents Earnings and earnings per share related to Weldwood were as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation Earnings from operation $153 $15 Income tax expense (50 ) (6 ) Earnings from operation, net of taxes 103 9 Asset impairment (323 ) Income tax expense (a) (388 ) Asset impairment, net of taxes (711 ) Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation, net of taxes $(608 ) $9 Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation Earnings from operation, net of taxes $0.22 $0.02 Asset impairment, net of taxes (1.47 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation, net of taxes $(1.25 ) $0.02 (a) Reflects the low historic tax basis in Weldwood that was carried over in connection with the acquisition of Champion in June 2000. OTHER DIVESTITURES: 2005: In the fourth quarter of 2005, a pre tax charge of $46 million ($30 million after taxes) was recorded for adjustments of losses of businesses held for sale, principally $45 million to write down the carrying value of the Companys Polyrey business in France to its estimated net realizable value. In the second quarter of 2005, a net pre tax credit of $19 million ($12 million after taxes) was recorded, including a $25 million credit before taxes ($15 million after taxes) from the collection of a note receivable from the 2001 sale of the Flexible Packaging business and final charges related to the sale of Fine Papers and Industrial Papers. In addition, interest income of $11 million before taxes ($7 million after taxes) was collected on the Flexible Packaging business note, which is included in Interest expense, net. During the first quarter of 2005, International Paper had announced an agreement to sell its Fine Papers business to Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc. of Cohoes, New York. A $24 million pre tax loss ($13 million after taxes) was recorded in the first quarter to write down the net assets of the Fine Papers business to their estimated net realizable value. The sale of Fine Papers was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Also during the first quarter of 2005, International Paper announced that it had signed an agreement to sell its Industrial Papers business to an affiliate of Kohlberg and Company, LLC. A $49 million pre tax loss ($35 million after taxes) was recorded in the first quarter to write down the net assets of the Industrial Papers business and related corporate assets to their estimated net realizable value. The sale of Industrial Papers was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Also in 2005, pre tax charges totaling $11 million ($7 million after taxes) were recorded to adjust previously estimated gains/losses of businesses previously sold. The net 2005 pre tax losses totaling $111 million discussed above are included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 2004: In December 2004, International Paper committed to plans for the sale in 2005 of its Fine Papers business and its Maresquel mill and Papeteries de France distribution business in Europe. As a result, charges of $11 million before taxes ($8 million after taxes), $34 million before and after taxes, and $11 million before taxes ($12 million after taxes), respectively, were recorded to write down the assets of these entities to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. In October 2004, International Paper sold two box plants located in China to International Paper Pacific Millennium, resulting in a pre tax loss of $14 million ($4 million after taxes). In the third quarter of 2004, International Paper signed an agreement to sell Scaldia Papier B.V., and its subsidiary, Recom B.V. in the Netherlands, to Stora Enso for approximately $36 million in cash. This sale was completed in the third quarter and resulted in a loss of $34 million (no impact from taxes or minority interest). In addition, a $4 million loss (no impact from taxes or minority interest) was recorded to adjust the estimated loss on sale of Papeteries de Souche L.C. in France. This sale was completed in the second quarter of 2005 for approximately $14 million in proceeds. In the second quarter of 2004, a $27 million loss before and after taxes was recorded to write down the assets of Papeteries de Souche L.C. in France to their estimated realizable value. In addition, a $4 million loss before taxes ($2 million after taxes) was recorded to write down the assets of Food Pack S.A. in Chile to their estimated realizable value. The net 2004 pre tax losses totaling $139 million discussed above are included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 2003: In the fourth quarter of 2003, International Paper recorded a $34 million charge ($34 million after taxes) to write down the assets of its Polyrey business in France to their estimated fair value. This pre tax loss is included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 56 Table of Contents TRANSFORMATION PLAN: On July 19, 2005, International Paper announced a plan to focus its business portfolio on two key global platform businesses: Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging. Subsequently, as discussed above, the Company completed the sale of CHH. Consistent with the previously announced plan, the Company continues to evaluate strategic options for specific businesses, including the possible sale or spin off of the businesses identified in the plan, and has distributed bid package information for many of these businesses. As this Transformation Plan is executed, it is expected that additional one time implementation charges will be incurred in future periods. NOTE 8 PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES: In March 2003, Southeast Timber, Inc. (Southeast Timber), a consolidated subsidiary of International Paper, issued $150 million of preferred securities to a private investor with future dividend payments based on LIBOR. Southeast Timber, which through a subsidiary initially held approximately 1.5 million acres of forestlands in the southern United States, is International Papers primary vehicle for ongoing future sales of southern forestlands. The preferred securities may be put back to International Paper by the private investor upon the occurrence of certain events, and have a liquidation preference that approximates their face amount. The $150 million preferred third party interest is included in Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Distributions paid to the third party investor were $10 million, $7 million and $5 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expense related to these preferred securities is shown in minority interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The agreement with the private investor also places certain limitations on International Papers ability to sell forestlands in the southern United States outside of Southeast Timber. In addition, because Southeast Timber is a separate legal entity, the assets of Southeast Timber and its subsidiaries, consisting principally of forestlands having a book value of approximately $215 million at December 31, 2005, will not be available to satisfy future liabilities and obligations of International Paper, although the value of International Papers interests in Southeast Timber and its subsidiaries will be available for these purposes. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES: International Paper holds variable interests in two financing entities that were used to monetize long term notes received from the sale of forestlands in 2002 and 2001. International Paper transferred notes and cash having a value of approximately $1.0 billion to these entities in exchange for preferred interests, and accounted for the transfers as a sale of the notes with no associated gain or loss. In the same period, the entities acquired approximately $1.0 billion of International Paper debt obligations for cash. International Paper has not consolidated the entities because it is not the primary beneficiary of the entities. At December 31, 2005, International Papers $540 million preferred interest in one of the entities has been offset against related debt obligations since International Paper has, and intends to effect, a legal right of offset to net settle these two amounts. NOTE 9 INCOME TAXES The components of International Papers earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest by taxing jurisdiction were: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) U.S. $276 $271 $(249 ) Non U.S. 310 453 534 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $586 $724 $285 The provision (benefit) for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction was: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Current tax provision (benefit) U.S. federal $(301 ) $161 $173 U.S. state and local (52 ) 24 11 Non U.S. 106 135 96 $(247 ) $320 $280 Deferred tax provision (benefit) U.S. federal $(5 ) $(34 ) $(262 ) U.S. state and local (10 ) 5 (72 ) Non U.S. (23 ) (49 ) (2 ) $(38 ) $(78 ) $(336 ) Income tax provision (benefit) $(285 ) $242 $(56 ) The Companys net deferred income tax provision (benefit) includes a $3 million benefit, a $2 million benefit and a $1 million provision for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for the effect of changes in non U.S. and state tax rates. 57 Table of Contents International Paper made income tax payments, net of refunds, of $457 million, $254 million and $255 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A reconciliation of income tax expense using the statutory U.S. income tax rate compared with actual income tax expense (benefit) follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $586 $724 $285 Statutory U.S. income tax rate 35 % 35 % 35 % Tax expense using statutoryU.S. income tax rate 205 253 100 State and local income taxes (41 ) 19 (41 ) Tax rate and permanent differences on non U.S. earnings (25 ) (41 ) (105 ) Net U.S. tax on non U.S. dividends 169 44 26 Tax benefit on export sales (9 ) (7 ) (12 ) Non deductible business expenses 13 12 14 Permanent differences on sales of non strategic assets 11 Minority interest (9 ) (12 ) Retirement plan dividends (6 ) (7 ) (7 ) Tax credits (19 ) (37 ) (56 ) Tax audit settlements (560 ) Other, net (12 ) 15 26 Income tax expense (benefit) $(285 ) $242 $(56 ) Effective income tax rate 49 % 33 % 20 % The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: In millions 2005 2004 Deferred tax assets: Postretirement benefit accruals $339 $348 Prepaid pension costs 589 320 Alternative minimum and other tax credits 300 519 Net operating loss carryforwards 1,807 1,518 Compensation reserves 211 186 Legal reserves 40 98 Other 349 457 Gross deferred tax assets 3,635 3,446 Less: valuation allowance (139 ) (129 ) Net deferred tax assets $3,496 $3,317 Deferred tax liabilities: Plants, properties, and equipment $(2,599 ) $(2,731 ) Forestlands (753 ) (749 ) Other (298 ) (282 ) Total deferred tax liabilities $(3,650 ) $(3,762 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $(154 ) $(445 ) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet under the captions Deferred income tax assets, Deferred charges and other assets, Other accrued liabilities and Deferred income taxes. The decrease in 2005 in Deferred income taxes principally reflects the generation of U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the utilization of income tax credits and an increase in deferred tax assets relating to pension costs. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of January 1, 2005, was $129 million. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $10 million. The 2005 income tax provision included a net $446 million reduction, including a $627 million reduction resulting from an agreement reached with the U.S. federal taxing authorities concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a $142 million charge for deferred taxes related to earnings repatriated under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and $39 million of other tax charges. During 2004, International Paper recorded a $32 million increase in the provision for income taxes reflecting an adjustment of deferred tax balances. During 2003, decreases totaling $110 million in the provision for income taxes were recorded for significant tax items, including a $60 million reduction for a favorable revision of estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2002 federal income tax return and increased research and development credits, and a $50 million reduction reflecting a favorable tax audit settlement and benefits from an overseas tax program. International Paper has federal and non U.S. net operating loss carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $147 million, 2016 through 2025 $3.4 billion, and indefinite carryforwards of $700 million. International Paper has tax benefits from net operating loss carryforwards for state taxing jurisdictions of approximately $397 million that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $102 million and 2016 through 2025 $295 million. International Paper also has federal, non U.S. and state tax credit carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $66 million, 2016 through 2025 $116 million, and indefinite carryforwards $182 million. Further, International Paper has state capital loss carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $40 million and 2016 through 2025 $1 million. Deferred income taxes are not provided for temporary differences of approximately $2.4 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing earnings of non U.S. subsidiaries intended to be permanently reinvested. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings and other basis differences is not practicable. 58 Table of Contents International Paper is currently being audited by various federal, state and non U.S. taxing authorities for tax periods from 1994 through 2004. While the Company believes that it is adequately accrued for possible audit adjustments, the final resolution of these examinations cannot be determined at this time and could result in final settlements that differ from current estimates. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act provides for a special one time deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. International Paper applied this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in 2005 totaling $2.1 billion and recorded a deferred tax charge of $142 million related to these repatriations. NOTE 10 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Certain property, machinery and equipment are leased under cancelable and non cancelable agreements. At December 31, 2005, total future minimum rental commitments under non cancelable leases were $712 million, due as follows: 2006 $172 million; 2007 $144 million; 2008 $119 million; 2009 $76 million; 2010 $63 million; and thereafter $138 million. Rent expense was $216 million, $225 million and $236 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Unconditional purchase obligations have been entered into in the ordinary course of business for the purchase of certain pulpwood, logs, wood chips, raw materials, energy and services. At December 31, 2005, total future minimum purchase obligations were $5.6 billion due as follows: 2006 $3.3 billion; 2007 $393 million; 2008 $280 million; 2009 $240 million; 2010 $204 million; and thereafter $1.2 billion. International Paper entered into an agreement in 2000 to guarantee, for a fee, an unsecured contractual credit agreement between a financial institution and an unrelated third party customer. The guarantee, which expires in 2008, was made in exchange for a ten year contract as the exclusive paper supplier to the customer. Both the loan from the financial institution to the customer and the Companys guarantee are unsecured. Under the terms of the guarantee, International Paper could be required to make future payments up to a maximum of $110 million if the customer were to default under the credit agreement. There is no liability recorded on International Papers books for the guarantee. It is possible that payments may be required under this guarantee arrangement in the future, although it is uncertain how much or when such payments, if any, might be required. In connection with sales of businesses, property, equipment, forestlands and other assets, International Paper commonly makes representations and warranties relating to such businesses or assets, and may enter into indemnification arrangements with respect to tax and environmental liabilities, breaches of representations and warranties, and other matters. Where any liabilities for such matters are probable and subject to reasonable estimation, accrued liabilities are recorded at the time of sale as a cost of the transaction. International Paper believes that possible future unrecorded liabilities for these matters, if any, would not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. EXTERIOR SIDING AND ROOFING SETTLEMENTS Three nationwide class action lawsuits against the Company and Masonite Corp., a formerly wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, relating to exterior siding and roofing products manufactured by Masonite were settled in 1998 and 1999. Masonite was sold to Premdor Inc. in 2001. The liability for these settlements, as well as the corresponding insurance recoveries (each as further described below), were retained by the Company. The first suit, entitled Judy Naef v. Masonite and International Paper, was filed in December 1994 and settled on January 15, 1998 (the Hardboard Settlement). The plaintiffs alleged that hardboard siding manufactured by Masonite failed prematurely, allowing moisture intrusion that in turn caused damage to the structure underneath the siding. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners having Masonite hardboard siding installed on and incorporated into buildings between January 1, 1980, and January 15, 1998. For siding that was installed between January 1, 1980, and December 31, 1989, the deadline for filing claims expired January 18, 2005, and for siding installed between January 1, 1990, through January 15, 1998, claims must be made by January 15, 2008. The second suit, entitled Cosby, et al. v. Masonite Corporation, et al., was filed in 1997 and settled on January 6, 1999 (the Omniwood Settlement). The plaintiffs made allegations with regard to Omniwood siding manufactured by Masonite that were similar to those alleged with respect to hardboard siding. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners having Omniwood siding installed on and incorporated into buildings from January 1, 1992, to January 6, 1999. Claims relating to Omniwood siding must be made by January 6, 2009. The third suit, entitled Smith, et al v. Masonite Corporation, et al., was filed in 1995 and settled on January 6, 1999 (the Woodruf Settlement). The plaintiffs alleged that Woodruf roofing manufactured by Masonite was defective and caused damage to the structure underneath the roofing. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners who had incorporated and installed Woodruf roofing from January 1, 1980, to January 6, 1999. For roofing that was installed between January 1, 59 Table of Contents 1980, and December 31, 1989, the deadline for filing claims expired January 6, 2006, and for roofing installed between January 1, 1990, and January 6, 1999, claims must be made by January 6, 2009. All of the settlements provide for monetary compensation to class members meeting the settlement requirements on a claims made basis, which requires a class member to individually submit proof of damage to, or caused by, Masonite product, proof of square footage involved and proofs of various other matters. All of the settlements also provide for payment of attorneys fees equaling 15% (in the case of the Hardboard Settlement) and 13% (in the case of the Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements) of the settlement amounts paid to class members. CLAIMS FILING AND EVALUATION For all of the settlements, once a claim is determined to be valid, the amount of the claim is determined by reference to a negotiated compensation formula designed to compensate the homeowner for product damage to the structure. The compensation formula is based on (1) the average cost per square foot for product replacement, including material and labor as calculated by industry standards, in the area in which the structure is located, adjusted for inflation, or (2) the cost of appropriate refinishing as determined by industry standards in such area. Pursuant to the settlement agreements, these costs are determined by reference to Means Price Data, as published by R.S. Means Company, and updated annually for inflation. Persons receiving compensation pursuant to this formula also agree to release the Company and Masonite from all other property damage claims relating to the product in question. In connection with the products involved in the settlements described above, where there is damage, the process of degradation, once begun, continues until repairs are made. The Company estimates that approximately four million structures have installed products that are the subject of the Hardboard Settlement, 300,000 structures have installed products that are the subject of the Omniwood Settlement and 86,000 structures have installed products that are the subject of the Woodruf Settlement. Masonite stopped selling the products involved in the Hardboard Settlement in May 2001, the products involved in the Woodruf Settlement in May 1996 and the products involved in the Omniwood Settlement in September 1996. Persons who are class members under the settlements who do not pursue remedies may have recourse to warranties, if any, in existence at the expiration of the respective terms established under the settlement agreements for making claims. The warranty period generally extends for 25 years following the installation of the product in question and, although the warranties vary from product to product, they generally provide for a payment of up to two times the purchase price. CLAIMS PAYMENT DATA Through December 31, 2005, net settlement payments totaled approximately $1.0 billion ($831 million for the Hardboard Settlement, $128 million for the Omniwood Settlement and $52 million for the Woodruf Settlement), including $51 million of non refundable attorneys advances. The average settlement cost per claim for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 for the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements are set forth in the table below: AVERAGE SETTLEMENT COST PER CLAIM Hardboard Omniwood Woodruf In thousands SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family December 31, 2005 $2.5 $2.2 $4.6 $6.1 $4.3 $0.5 December 31, 2004 2.3 3.1 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.0 December 31, 2003 2.2 3.0 3.8 5.4 3.9 1.2 The above information is calculated by dividing the aggregate amount of claims paid during the specified period by the number of claims paid during such period. 60 Table of Contents The following table shows an analysis of claims activity related to the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: CLAIMS ACTIVITY In thousands Hardboard Omniwood Woodruf Total SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family Total December 31, 2002 28.6 4.0 1.9 0.4 1.1 0.3 31.6 4.7 36.3 No. of Claims Filed 45.0 9.2 4.9 0.3 1.0 50.9 9.5 60.4 No. of Claims Paid (30.9 ) (7.1 ) (4.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.9 ) (35.9 ) (7.3 ) (43.2 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (16.3 ) (3.3 ) (0.9 ) (0.4 ) (17.6 ) (3.3 ) (20.9 ) December 31, 2003 26.4 2.8 1.8 0.5 0.8 0.3 29.0 3.6 32.6 No. of Claims Filed 56.0 8.0 5.2 0.6 61.8 8.0 69.8 No. of Claims Paid (28.6 ) (3.7 ) (4.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.4 ) (33.0 ) (3.8 ) (36.8 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (14.9 ) (2.1 ) (0.6 ) (0.1 ) (15.6 ) (2.1 ) (17.7 ) December 31, 2004 38.9 5.0 2.4 0.4 0.9 0.3 42.2 5.7 47.9 No. of Claims Filed 27.3 5.6 4.6 0.4 0.6 32.5 6.0 38.5 No. of Claims Paid (30.7 ) (5.3 ) (4.1 ) (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (35.3 ) (5.6 ) (40.9 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (15.3 ) (2.1 ) (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (16.0 ) (2.1 ) (18.1 ) December 31, 2005 20.2 3.2 2.4 0.5 0.8 0.3 23.4 4.0 27.4 At December 31, 2005, there were $18 million of payments due for claims that have been determined to be valid ($12 million for Hardboard, $5 million for Omniwood and $1 million for Woodruf) and an estimated $14 million of payments associated with claims currently under evaluation ($9 million for claims related to the Hardboard Settlement, $3 million for claims related to the Omniwood Settlement and $2 million for claims related to the Woodruf Settlement). In addition, there was approximately $9 million of costs associated with administrative and legal fees incurred but not paid prior to year end. RESERVE FOR SIDING AND ROOFING SETTLEMENTS At December 31, 2005, net reserves for the settlements discussed above totaled $113 million, of which $34 million is attributable to the Hardboard Settlement, $74 million to the Omniwood Settlement and $5 million to the Woodruf Settlement. The following table presents an analysis of the net reserve activity related to the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: In millions Hard board Omni wood Woodruf Total Balance, December 31, 2002 $357 $138 $12 $507 Payments (129 ) (21 ) (3 ) (153 ) Insurance collections 33 33 Balance, December 31, 2003 261 117 9 387 Payments (111 ) (20 ) (5 ) (136 ) Insurance collections 8 8 Balance, December 31, 2004 158 97 4 259 Payments (119 ) (23 ) (4 ) (146 ) Reclassification (5 ) 5 Balance, December 31, 2005 $34 $74 $5 $113 While, for tracking purposes, the Company maintains three reserve accounts for each of the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements, we evaluate the adequacy of the aggregate reserve due to their similar and related nature. In making a determination as to adequacy of the aggregate reserve, we employ a third party consultant to conduct statistical studies of future costs utilizing recent claims experience data. In 2002, projections were prepared of the anticipated claims activity and payments through the end of the claims period for each of the settlements. These projections are updated annually using recent claims activity and other factors typically considered in projecting future claims 61 Table of Contents and costs. If the projections were to indicate that aggregate payments though the end of the claims period would be materially over or under the aggregate forecasted payments, the aggregate reserve would be appropriately adjusted. Since 2002, our actual claims experience has been in line with projected forecasts and therefore there have been no adjustments of the aggregate reserve balance for these settlements. A number of factors could cause actual results to vary from our projections, including a higher than projected cost per claim (due to higher construction, wood, energy and replacement costs, all of which affect the inflation factor for the Means Price Data discussed above), and increased claims from geographic locations where previously there had been few or no claims. In January 2005, the Company received over 21,000 Hardboard claims (compared to 8,000 claims received in December 2004, and 3,000 claims received in January 2004). This significant increase in claim volume coincided with the January 18, 2005 deadline for filing claims in the Hardboard Settlement for siding installed in the 1980s. Claims are processed by the Independent Claims Administrator and only those claims which meet the requirements of the Hardboard Settlement are paid. Following the January deadline, the Independent Claims Administrator could not immediately determine how many of the 21,000 claims would meet the requirements for payment as set forth in the Hardboard Settlement. In addition to this significant volume increase, the Company experienced a higher average cost per claim due, in part, to a 2005 increase in the Means Price Data compared to prior years. At the end of the third quarter, the Companys third party consultant advised the Company that payments relating to 1980s Hardboard siding would be largely concluded by the end of the third quarter 2005. Payments through the end of the third quarter totaled $99 million, which were approximately $30 million more than projected for the year. However, during the fourth quarter, the number of valid 1980s Hardboard claims and approved payments exceeded the third party consultants projection by $12 million. As a result of these unforeseen factors, the Company made aggregate payments of $118 million in 2005 for Hardboard Settlement claims. Despite the higher than anticipated number of valid 1980s Hardboard claims and the slightly higher cost per claim, the Company believes that, as of the end of 2005, the aggregate reserve balance for the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements is adequate. However, if new claims filed for products involved in these settlements, or the average cost per claim, were to be higher than projected in 2006, the Company might increase its aggregate reserve to cover claims for these settlements. The amount of an increase, if any, could range from zero to $20 million and would depend on a number of factors, including the likelihood that, and the extent to which, our 2005 experience is indicative of future activity. The Company will continue to evaluate the relevant data through the end of the claims period in order to determine if an increase in its aggregate reserve will be warranted. HARDBOARD INSURANCE MATTERS The Company commenced a number of lawsuits and arbitration proceedings against various insurance carriers relating to their refusal to indemnify and or defend the Company and Masonite for, among other things, the Hardboard Settlement. These matters (with the exception of one arbitration proceeding further discussed below) have been favorably resolved resulting in the execution of settlement agreements that require the insurance carriers to pay the Company an aggregate of approximately $625 million. Of this amount, approximately $603 million in insurance settlements were reached with carriers through December 31, 2005. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Insurance settlements $ 334 $ 174 $ 33 Income recognized 258 123 Cash settlements received, net 114 96 33 Including collections received prior to 2003, cumulative net cash settlements received totaled $304 million through December 31, 2005. Approximately $230 million of additional cash will be collected in 2006 through 2008 under current settlement agreements. The Company also entered into a settlement in the first quarter of 2006 for approximately $22 million. The only remaining proceeding to recover insurance is an arbitration that the Company commenced against ACE Insurance Company, Ltd. That proceeding is scheduled for June 2006 in London. In 2004, the Company settled a dispute with a third party relating to an alternative risk transfer agreement. Under that agreement, the Company received $100 million for certain costs relating to the Hardboard Settlement and other hardboard siding cases. As part of the settlement, the Company agreed to pay the third party a portion of certain insurance recoveries received by the Company after January 1, 2004, up to a maximum of $95 million. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $48 million had been paid to the third party under this settlement. ANTITRUST MATTERS On May 14, 1999, and May 18, 1999, two lawsuits were filed in federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Company, the former Union Camp Corporation (acquired by the Company in 1999), and other manufacturers of linerboard (the Defendants). These suits alleged that the Defendants conspired to fix prices for corrugated sheets and containers during the 62 Table of Contents period from October 1, 1993, through November 30, 1995. These lawsuits, which sought injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation, were consolidated and, on September 4, 2001, certified as a class action. On September 22, 2003, the Company, along with Weyerhaeuser Co. and Georgia Pacific Corp., agreed with the class plaintiffs to settle the litigation for an aggregate amount of $68 million. The settlement, of which the Companys and Union Camps share totaled $24.4 million, was approved by the court in an order dismissing the cases on December 10, 2003. While court approval of the class action settlements was pending in 2003, 12 new complaints each with multiple plaintiffs who opted out of the class action, described above, were filed in various federal district courts around the country. These suits alleged that the defendants conspired to fix prices for corrugated sheets and containers during the period from October 1, 1993, through February 28, 1997. One opt out plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its complaint on October 10, 2003. In 2005, the Company settled all of the claims of the remaining opt out plaintiffs, except for one claimant who had purchased a small amount of corrugated containers from the Company, for payments which aggregated $27.5 million. As a consequence of those settlements, all but one of the lawsuits have been dismissed. The amount involved in the one remaining lawsuit is de minimus. In 2004, the Company settled a number of purported federal and state class actions alleging price fixing relating to high pressure laminates by its former Nevamar business (which was part of the Companys Decorative Products division) for a total of $38.5 million. The federal settlement has been approved by the court, and the Company has been dismissed from the case. The state settlements have all received approval as well, and the judgments dismissing the Company from the cases are final in all but one state (Tennessee) in which four settlement class members have appealed the trial courts rejection of their objection to the settlement. The amount involved in the Tennessee matter is de minimus. On September 16, 2002, the Company was served in Federal District Court in Columbia, South Carolina with a class action lawsuit by a group of private landowners alleging that the Company and certain of its fiber suppliers, known as Quality Suppliers, engaged in an unlawful conspiracy to artificially depress the prices at which the Company procures fibers for its mills. The suit seeks injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation. On March 31, 2004, the case was certified as a class action. Discovery and issues concerning class notice are ongoing. The Company believes it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending this case. A number of private plaintiffs filed purported class actions on behalf of purchasers of coated publication papers in various U.S. federal and state courts. These class actions, based on investigations of possible cartel activity relating to coated publication papers that were commenced in 2004 by European, U.S. and Canadian antitrust authorities, allege that manufacturers of coated publication papers, including the Company, participated in a price fixing conspiracy from 1993 to the present. The cases filed in federal court asserted a violation of the federal antitrust laws, while the cases filed in the state court alleged violations of state antitrust and consumer protection statutes. These lawsuits seek injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation. The federal cases were consolidated for pre trial purposes in December 2004 in the federal court for the District of Connecticut. The state cases in all states except California were removed to federal court and transferred to the District of Connecticut, and on November 15, 2005, a consolidated indirect purchaser class action complaint was filed in the District of Connecticut on behalf of indirect purchasers in all states except California. While discovery is in the earliest stages, the Company believes it is not a proper party defendant to this litigation and intends to vigorously defend its position. PATENT MATTER In connection with its former Nevamar business, the Company retained liability for a patent dispute pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The case was commenced in 1988 as a declaratory judgment action by Nevamar for non infringement and invalidity of a static dissipative laminate patent held by Charleswater Products, Inc. (Charleswater). Charleswater counterclaimed, asserting that certain Nevamar products infringed its patent and seeking damages of approximately $24 million for lost profits and royalty payments (which could be trebled if Nevamar were found to have willfully infringed the patent), plus substantial pre judgment interest as Charleswaters claims have existed since 1986. Because the Nevamar business is no longer owned by the Company, the outcome of the case would have no impact on the Companys business except to the extent of monetary damages. The proceedings have been protracted by an extended preliminary injunction hearing; a summary judgment ruling in favor of Nevamar which was then reversed after an appeal; a claim construction proceeding; extensive fact and expert discovery; and a further summary judgment motion that is pending. Trial for this 63 Table of Contents matter is scheduled to commence on March 13, 2006. The Company believes that it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending this case. SUMMARY The Company is also involved in various other inquiries, administrative proceedings and litigation relating to contracts, sales of property, environmental protection, tax, antitrust, personal injury and other matters, some of which allege substantial monetary damages. While any proceeding or litigation has the element of uncertainty, the Company believes that the outcome of any of the lawsuits or claims that are pending or threatened (other than those that cannot be assessed due to their preliminary nature), or all of them combined, including the preceding antitrust matters, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION Inventories by major category were: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 Raw materials $404 $321 Finished pulp, paper and packaging products 1,611 1,650 Finished lumber and panel products 33 38 Operating supplies 317 298 Other 69 64 Inventories $2,434 $2,371 The last in, first out inventory method is used to value most of International Papers U.S. inventories. Approximately 70% of total raw materials and finished products inventories were valued using this method. If the first in, first out method had been used, it would have increased total inventory balances by approximately $239 million and $170 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Plants, properties and equipment by major classification were: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 Pulp, paper and packaging facilities Mills $19,865 $20,895 Packaging plants 5,685 5,633 Wood products facilities 978 974 Other plants, properties and equipment 1,886 1,824 Gross cost 28,414 29,326 Less: Accumulated depreciation 16,613 17,110 Plants, properties and equipment, net $11,801 $12,216 Interest costs related to the development of certain long term assets are capitalized and amortized over the related assets estimated useful lives. Capitalized net interest costs were $14 million in 2005, $10 million in 2004 and $8 million in 2003. Interest payments made during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $822 million, $774 million and $806 million, respectively. The 2005 interest payments include a $52 million payment to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service related to the settlement of the 1997 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits. Total interest expense was $683 million in 2005, net of a $46 million credit related to the settlement of the tax audits discussed above, $782 million in 2004 and $804 million in 2003. Interest income was $90 million, $73 million and $100 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following tables present changes in the goodwill balances as allocated to each business segment for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In millions BalanceJanuary 1,2005 Other(a) Additions /Reductions BalanceDecember 31,2005 Printing Papers $2,876 $3 $ $2,879 Industrial Packaging 591 18 67 (b ) 676 Consumer Packaging 1,014 (28 ) 1 (c ) 987 Distribution 299 299 Forest Products 190 1 191 Corporate 24 (13 ) (d ) 11 Total $4,994 $(6 ) $55 $5,043 (a) Includes reclassifications and the effects of foreign currency translations (b) Includes the effects of the completion of the accounting for the acquisition of Box USA ($23 million), the acquisition of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers ($12 million) and the acquisition of a 50% interest in International Paper Distribution Limited ($38 million), offset by the effects of the sale of the Industrial Papers business ($6 million) (c) Includes the effects of the acquisitions of a 20% minority interest in Shorewood EPC Europe Ltd. ($5 million), and a 20% minority interest in IP Korea ($1 million), offset by the reclassification of IP Pty Australia Ltd. to equity method investments ($5 million) (d) Includes the effects of the sale of the Fine Papers business 64 Table of Contents In millions Balance January 1, 2004 Other(b) Additions/ Reductions Balance December 31, 2004 Printing Papers $2,878 $1 $(3 )(c) $2,876 Industrial Packaging 345 8 238(d ) 591 Consumer Packaging 1,016 1 (3 )(e) 1,014 Distribution 334 1 (36 )(f) 299 Forest Products 190(a ) 190 Corporate 30 (6 ) 24 Total $4,793 $5 $196 $4,994 (a) Restated for the reclassification of Weldwood to Discontinued operations (b) Represents the effects of foreign currency translations and reclassifications from other long term assets (c) Represents the reclassification of the goodwill of Fine Papers to Assets of businesses held for sale (d) Includes the effects of the acquisition of Box USA ($238 million) offset by the sale of Food Pack S.A. ($3 million) (e) Includes the effects of the sale of Food Pack S.A. (f) Represents the effects of the sale of Scaldia Papier B.V. ($23 million) and the reclassification of the goodwill of Papeteries de France to Assets of businesses held for sale ($12 million) The following table presents an analysis of activity related to asset retirement obligations since January 1, 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Asset retirement obligation at January 1 $41 $48 New liabilities 12 6 Liabilities settled (6 ) (8 ) Net adjustments to existing liabilities (2 ) (6 ) Accretion expense 2 1 Asset retirement obligation at December 31 $47 $41 This liability is included in Other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The following table presents changes in minority interest balances for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Balance, beginning of year $188 $528 Reclassification of limited partnership interests to debt (338 ) Interest of CHH in an IP consolidated subsidiary 17 Dividends paid (11 ) (25 ) Minority interest expense 12 26 Other, net 5 (3 ) Balance, end of year $211 $188 In December 2004, International Paper completed the sale of 1.1 million acres of forestlands in Maine and New Hampshire to a private forest investment company for $244 million. Since International Paper has some continuing interest in these forestlands through a long term fiber supply agreement, no gain was recognized in 2004 on this transaction. However, the net cash proceeds from the transaction of approximately $242 million are included as a source of cash in the accompanying consolidated statement of cash flows. The deferred gain on the transaction totaling $112 million and $114 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, included in Other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, is being amortized to earnings in future periods over the term of the fiber supply agreement. NOTE 12 DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT In November and December of 2005, International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Paper, issued $700 million of long term debt with an initial interest rate of LIBOR plus 40 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in November 2010. Additionally, the subsidiary borrowed $70 million under a bank credit agreement with an initial interest rate of LIBOR plus 40 basis points that can vary depending on the credit rating of the Company, and with a maturity date in November 2006. In December 2005, International Paper used a portion of the proceeds from the above borrowings, and from the sale of CHH in the third quarter of 2005, to repay approximately $190 million of notes with coupon rates ranging from 3.8% to 10% and original maturities from 2008 to 2029. The remaining proceeds from the borrowings and CHH sale will be used for other debt reductions in the first quarter of 2006. In September 2005, International Paper used a portion of the proceeds from the CHH sale to repay the remaining $250 million portion of a subsidiarys $650 million long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points and a maturity date of June 2007, and $312 million of commercial paper that had been issued in the same quarter. Other reductions in the third quarter included $662 million of notes with coupon rates ranging from 4% to 7.35% and original maturities from 2009 to 2029, and the repayment of $150 million of 7.10% notes with a maturity date of September 2005. In June 2005, International Paper repaid approximately $400 million of a subsidiarys long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points and a maturity date of June 2007. 65 Table of Contents In February 2005, International Paper redeemed the outstanding $464 million aggregate principal amount of International Paper Capital Trust 5.25% convertible subordinated debentures originally due in July 2025 at 100.5% of par plus accrued interest. Other reductions in the first quarter of 2005 included early payment of approximately $295 million of principal on notes with coupon rates ranging from 4% to 7.875% and original maturities from 2006 to 2015. Pre tax early debt retirement expense of $57 million related to the above 2005 redemptions is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. In December 2004, Timberlands Capital Corp. II, Inc., a former wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of International Paper, redeemed $170 million of 4.5% preferred securities. In November 2004, these preferred securities were reclassified from Minority interest to Current maturities of long term debt, pursuant to SFAS No. 150. Additionally during the fourth quarter of 2004, International Paper redeemed approximately $295 million of mostly domestic debt, including $108 million of 9.77% notes with a maturity date in December 2009 and $88 million of 6.9% industrial development bonds with a maturity date in August 2022. In August 2004, an International Paper wholly owned subsidiary issued 500 million euro denominated long term debt (equivalent to approximately $619 million at issuance) with an initial interest rate of EURIBOR plus 55 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in August 2009. Also in August 2004, International Paper repurchased $168 million of limited partnership interests in Georgetown Equipment Leasing Associates, L.P. and Trout Creek Equipment Leasing, L.P. In June 2004, these partnership interests had been reclassified from Minority interest to Current maturities of long term debt pursuant to SFAS No. 150. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2004, approximately $500 million of debt was redeemed, including $150 million of 8.125% notes with a maturity date in June 2024 and $193 million of debt assumed in connection with the Box USA acquisition. In June 2004, an International Paper wholly owned subsidiary issued $650 million of long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in June 2007, which refinanced $650 million of long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 100 basis points and a maturity date in August 2004. In March 2004, International Paper issued $600 million of 4.00% notes due April 2010 and $400 million of 5.25% notes due April 2016. The proceeds from these issuances were used in April 2004 to retire approximately $1.0 billion of 8.125% coupon rate debt with an original maturity date in July 2005. In January 2004, approximately $1.0 billion of debt with an 8.05% blended coupon rate was retired using $1.0 billion of proceeds from 4.875% coupon rate debt issued in December 2003. A pre tax early debt retirement expense of $92 million related to the above 2004 redemptions is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. A summary of long term debt follows: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 8 7/8% to 10% notes due 2011 2012 $136 $175 9.25% debentures due 2011 125 125 7% to 7 7/8% notes due 2006 2007 437 649 6 7/8% notes due 2023 2029 351 394 6.75% notes due 2011 819 1,000 6.65% notes due 2037 98 97 6.4% notes to 6.5% notes due 2006 2007 344 149 6.4% to 7.75% debentures due 2025 2027 571 797 5.85% notes due 2012 969 1,202 5 1/4% convertible subordinated debentures 464 5.25% to 5.5% notes due 2014 2016 1,296 1,596 5 3/8% euro notes due 2006 296 334 5 1/8% debentures due 2012 106 102 3.8% to 4.25% notes due 2008 2010 1,152 1,399 Zero coupon convertible debentures due 2021 1,185 1,141 Medium term notes due 2006 2009 (a) 43 43 Floating rate notes due 2006 2010 (b) 1,764 1,794 Environmental and industrial development bonds due 2006 2033 (c,d) 2,005 2,150 Commercial paper and bank notes (e) 417 65 Other (f) 90 178 Total (g) 12,204 13,854 Less: Current maturities 1,181 222 Long term debt $11,023 $13,632 (a) The weighted average interest rate on these notes was 8.1% in 2005 and 2004. (b) The weighted average interest rate on these notes was 4.2% in 2005 and 2.9% in 2004. (c) The weighted average interest rate on these bonds was 5.5% in 2005 and 5.6% in 2004. (d) Includes $22 million of bonds at December 31, 2004, which could be tendered at various dates and or under certain circumstances. These bonds were redeemed in 2005. (e) The weighted average interest rate was 4.9% in 2005 and 4.6% in 2004. Includes $283 million of non U.S. denominated borrowings with a weighted average interest rate of 4.8% in 2005. 66 Table of Contents (f) Includes $6 million at December 31, 2005, and $54 million at December 31, 2004, related to interest rate swaps treated as fair value hedges (see Note 13). (g) The fair market value was approximately $12.3 billion at December 31, 2005, and $14.4 billion at December 31, 2004. Total maturities of long term debt over the next five years are 2006 $1.2 billion; 2007 $570 million; 2008 $308 million; 2009 $2.3 billion; and 2010 $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, International Paper classified $1.25 billion and $87 million, respectively, of tenderable bonds, contingently convertible securities, commercial paper and bank notes, and Current maturities of long term debt as Long term debt. International Paper has the intent and ability to renew or convert these obligations, as evidenced by the available bank credit agreements described below. At December 31, 2005, International Papers unused contractually committed bank credit agreements amounted to $3.2 billion. The agreements generally provide for interest rates at a floating rate index plus a pre determined margin dependent upon International Papers credit rating. The agreements include a $750 million fully committed bank credit agreement that expires in March 2006 and a $1.25 billion fully committed bank credit agreement that expires in March 2009. These agreements have a facility fee of 0.15% that is payable quarterly. These agreements also include up to $1.2 billion of available commercial paper based financings under a receivables securitization program that expires in November 2007 with a facility fee of 0.20%. At December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding borrowings under these agreements. The Company is currently in the process of refinancing the $750 million bank credit agreement maturing in March 2006 and the $1.25 billion bank credit agreement maturing in March 2009. Additionally, International Paper Kwidzyn S.A., a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of International Paper, has a PLN 400 million (approximately $123 million) bank credit agreement maturing in May 2006, with no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2005, and International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l., a wholly owned subsidiary of International Paper, has a $100 million bank credit agreement maturing in November 2006, with $70 million in borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, outstanding debt included approximately $417 million of commercial paper and bank notes with interest rates that fluctuate based on market conditions and the Companys credit rating. Maintaining a strong investment grade rating is an important element of International Papers corporate finance strategy. At December 31, 2005, the Company held long term credit ratings of BBB (negative outlook) and Baa3 (stable outlook) by Standard & Poors (S&P) and Moodys Investor Services (Moodys), respectively. The Company currently has short term credit ratings by S&P and Moodys of A 3 and P 3, respectively. Contingently Convertible Securities Included in debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $2.1 billion principal amount at maturity of zero coupon convertible senior debentures with a 20 year term. This debt accretes to face value at maturity at a rate of 3.75% per annum. Beginning on June 20, 2004, and every June 20th until maturity, the debentures are subject to an increased accretion rate if the closing sales price of the Companys common stock is equal to or less than 60% of the then current conversion price of the notes for any 20 trading days out of the last 30 consecutive trading days ending six business days prior to June 20, 2004, or later annual date. The conversion price of the notes was $59.11 as of December 31, 2005. At June 20, 2005, the bonds were subject to an increased accretion rate; however, the adjusted rate remained at 3.75% per the terms of the agreement. These debentures may be converted into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion ratio of 9.5111 shares per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of debentures, which was equal to an initial conversion price of $50.01 per share of the Companys common stock. The debenture holders may convert their debentures into the Companys common stock prior to maturity under any of the following circumstances: (1) the closing sales price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the day prior to the surrender date is more than 120% (declining by .256% at the end of each semi annual period over the life of the debentures to 110%) of the then current conversion price; (2) International Papers credit rating is downgraded by each of Moodys and S&P to below Baa3 and BBB , respectively; (3) the Company has called the notes for redemption; (4) the Company distributes to all holders of the Companys common stock certain rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days, common stock at less than the closing sales price of the Companys common stock at the time; or (5) the Company distributes to all holders of its common stock, the assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase the Companys debt securities, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 12.5% of the closing sales price of the Companys common stock on the day preceding the declaration for such distribution. Security holders have the right to require repurchase of these securities on June 20th in each of the years 2006, 2011 and 2016, at a repurchase price equal to the accreted principal amount to the repurchase date. 67 Table of Contents The repurchase may be for International Paper common stock or cash, or a combination of both, at the Companys option. International Paper also has the option to redeem the securities for cash after June 19, 2006. On or after June 20, 2006, and prior to June 20, 2008, the redemption may only occur if the closing sales price of the Companys common stock exceeds 120% of the then current conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the date redemption notice is given. On or after June 20, 2008, the redemption price will be equal to the then accreted principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid cash interest to the redemption date. NOTE 13 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES International Paper periodically uses derivatives and other financial instruments to hedge exposures to interest rate, commodity and currency risks. For hedges that meet the criteria under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, International Paper, at inception, formally designates and documents the instrument as a hedge of a specific underlying exposure, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. Because of the high degree of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure being hedged, fluctuations in the value of the derivative instruments are generally offset by changes in the value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. Derivatives are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, determined using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies, in Other current or noncurrent assets or liabilities. The earnings impact resulting from the change in fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as the underlying exposure being hedged. The financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are assessed both at inception and quarterly thereafter to ensure they are effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposures. The ineffective portion of a financial instruments change in fair value, if any, would be recognized currently in earnings together with the changes in fair value of any derivatives not designated as hedges. INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate swaps may be used to manage interest rate risks associated with International Papers debt. Some of these instruments qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, and others do not. Interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount at December 31, 2005, of approximately $500 million and maturities ranging from one to 18 years do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the change in fair value of these swaps was immaterial. The fair value of the swap contracts as of December 31, 2005, is a $7 million liability. The remainder of International Papers interest rate swap agreements qualify as fully effective fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, outstanding notional amounts for its interest rate swap fair value hedges amounted to approximately $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The fair values of these swaps were net assets of approximately $7 million and $70 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, interest rate swap hedges with a notional value of $313 million were terminated in connection with various early retirements of debt. The resulting gain of approximately $6 million is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations (see Note 6). In 2004, International Paper cash settled interest rate swaption contracts for a loss of $10 million, which was recorded in earnings. In April 2004, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $500 million were terminated in connection with the early retirement of International Papers $1.0 billion notes due in July 2005. The resulting gain of approximately $14 million is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations (see Note 6). COMMODITY RISK To minimize volatility in earnings due to large fluctuations in the price of commodities, International Paper may use swap and option contracts to manage risks associated with market fluctuations in energy prices. Such cash flow hedges are accounted for by deferring the after tax quarterly change in fair value of the outstanding contracts in OCI. On the date a contract matures, the gain or loss is reclassified into cost of products sold concurrent with the recognition of the commodity purchased. In 2005, there was no reclassification from OCI to earnings related to commodity hedging, and in 2004, the reclassification to earnings was immaterial. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the reclassification to earnings was an after tax gain of $24 million, representing the after tax cash settlements on maturing energy hedge contracts. Unrealized after tax losses of $2 million for 2005 and 2004 and after tax gains of $12 million for 2003 were recorded to OCI. After tax losses of approximately $2 million as of December 31, 2005, are expected to be reclassified to earnings in 2006. The 68 Table of Contents net fair value of energy hedge contracts as of December 31, 2005, is a $1 million asset recorded in Other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK International Papers policy has been to hedge certain investments in non U.S. operations through borrowings denominated in the same currency as the operations functional currency, or by entering into cross currency and interest rate swaps or foreign exchange contracts. These financial instruments are effective as hedges against fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Gains or losses from changes in the fair value of these instruments, which are offset in whole or in part by translation gains and losses on the non U.S. operations net assets hedged, are recorded as translation adjustments in OCI. Upon liquidation or sale of the foreign investments, the accumulated gains or losses from the revaluation of the hedging instruments, together with the translation gains and losses on the net assets, are included in earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, net gains and losses included in the cumulative translation adjustment relating to derivative and debt instruments hedging foreign net investments amounted to a $19 million gain, a $74 million loss and an $89 million loss after taxes and minority interest, respectively. The 2004 loss includes $50 million relating to net investment hedges that were included in the loss on sale of Weldwood in Discontinued operations in 2004. Foreign exchange contracts (including forward, swap and purchase option contracts) are also used to hedge certain transactions, primarily trade receipts and payments denominated in foreign currencies, to manage volatility associated with these transactions and to protect International Paper from currency fluctuations between the contract date and ultimate settlement. These contracts, most of which have been designated as cash flow hedges, had maturities of four years or less as of December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, net unrealized gains after taxes and minority interest totaling $48 million, $72 million and $53 million, respectively, were recorded to OCI. Net after tax gains of $14 million, $4 million and $10 million were reclassified to earnings. Gains relating to CHH, after taxes and minority interest, totaling $14 million, $22 million and $31 million are included in Discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cumulative OCI after tax and minority interest gains of $40 million are included in the gain on sale of CHH in Discontinued operations in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, gains of $19 million after taxes are expected to be reclassified to earnings in 2006. Other contracts are used to offset the earnings impact relating to the variability in exchange rates on certain short term monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non functional currencies and are not designated as hedges. Changes in the fair value of these instruments, recognized currently in earnings to offset the remeasurement of the related assets and liabilities, were not significant. International Paper does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The counterparties to swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts consist of a number of major international financial institutions. International Paper continually monitors its positions with and the credit quality of these financial institutions and does not expect nonperformance by the counterparties. NOTE 14 CAPITAL STOCK The authorized capital stock at both December 31, 2005 and 2004, consisted of 990,850,000 shares of common stock, $1 par value; 400,000 shares of cumulative $4 preferred stock, without par value (stated value $100 per share); and 8,750,000 shares of serial preferred stock, $1 par value. The serial preferred stock is issuable in one or more series by the Board of Directors without further shareholder action. NOTE 15 RETIREMENT PLANS U.S. DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS International Paper maintains pension plans that provide retirement benefits to substantially all domestic employees hired prior to July 1, 2004. These employees generally are eligible to participate in the plans upon completion of one year of service and attainment of age 21. Employees hired after June 30, 2004, who are not eligible for this pension plan receive an additional company contribution to their savings plan (see Other Plans on page 73). The plans provide defined benefits based on years of credited service and either final average earnings (salaried employees), hourly job rates or specified benefit rates (hourly and union employees). International Paper makes contributions that are sufficient to fully fund its actuarially determined costs, generally equal to the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). International Paper made no contributions to the qualified defined benefit plan in 2005 or 2004, and does not expect to make any contributions in 2006 unless International Paper changes its funding policy to make contributions above the minimum requirements. The U.S. Congress is currently considering various proposals that would change the minimum funding requirements for qualified defined benefit plans in future 69 Table of Contents years. While the amount of any required contributions after 2006 will depend upon the final rules adopted and other factors, including changes in discount rates and actual plan asset returns, the Company currently estimates that a contribution in 2007 of $40 million to $200 million may be required. The nonqualified plan is only funded to the extent of benefits paid, which are expected to be $34 million in 2006. Net Periodic Pension Expense Service cost is the actuarial present value of benefits attributed by the plans benefit formula to services rendered by employees during the year. Interest cost represents the increase in the projected benefit obligation, which is a discounted amount, due to the passage of time. The expected return on plan assets reflects the computed amount of current year earnings from the investment of plan assets using an estimated long term rate of return. Net periodic pension expense for qualified and nonqualified U.S. defined benefit plans comprised the following: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $129 $115 $107 Interest cost 474 467 469 Expected return on plan assets (556 ) (592 ) (598 ) Actuarial loss 167 94 57 Amortization of prior service cost 29 27 25 Net periodic pension expense (a) $243 $111 $60 (a) Excludes $6.5 million, $3.4 million and $8.3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, in curtailment losses, and $3.6 million, $1.4 million and $6.3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, of special termination benefits, in connection with cost reduction programs and facility rationalizations that were recorded in Restructuring and other charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Also excludes $14.3 million and $0.3 million in 2005 and 2003, respectively, in curtailment losses, and $7.6 million of special termination benefits in 2005 related to certain divestitures recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated statement of operations. The increases in 2005 and 2004 U.S. pension expense were due to increases in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses, reductions in the discount rate and a reduction in 2005 in the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, net of a reduction in 2004 in the assumed rate of future compensation increase. International Paper evaluates its actuarial assumptions annually as of December 31 (the measurement date) and considers changes in these long term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. These assumptions are used to calculate benefit obligations as of December 31 of the current year, and pension expense to be recorded in the following year. Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.50 % Expected long term return on plan assets 8.50 % 8.75 % 8.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.25 % 3.25 % 3.75 % Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.50 % 5.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.25 % 3.25 % The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on projected rates of return for current and planned asset classes in the plans investment portfolio. Projected rates of return are developed through an asset/liability study in which projected returns for each of the plans asset classes are determined after analyzing historical experience and future expectations of returns and volatility of the various asset classes. Based on the target asset allocation for each asset class, the overall expected rate of return for the portfolio is developed considering the effects of active portfolio management and expenses paid from plan assets. The discount rate assumption is determined based on a yield curve that incorporates approximately 500 550 Aa graded bonds. The plans projected cash flows are then matched to the yield curve to develop the discount rate. To calculate pension expense for 2006, the Company will use an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.50%, a discount rate of 5.50% and an assumed rate of compensation increase of 3.25%. The Company estimates that it will record net pension expense of approximately $370 million for its U.S. defined benefit plans in 2006, with the increase from expense of $243 million in 2005 principally reflecting a change in the mortality assumption to use the Retirement Protection Act 2000 table (RP 2000) in 2006 versus the Group Annuity Mortality Table 1983 (GAM83) used in 2005, an increase in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses over a shorter average remaining service period, and a decrease in the assumed discount rate to 5.50% in 2006 from 5.75% in 2005. 70 Table of Contents The following illustrates the effect on pension expense for 2006 of a 25 basis point decrease in the above assumptions: In millions 2006 Expense/(Income): Discount rate $27 Expected long term return on plan assets 16 Rate of compensation increase (6 ) Investment Policy / Strategy Plan assets are invested to maximize returns within prudent levels of risk. The target allocations by asset class are summarized in the following table. Investments are diversified across classes and within each class to minimize risk. The investment policy permits the use of swaps, options, forwards and futures contracts. Periodic reviews are made of investment policy objectives and investment manager performance. International Papers pension plan asset allocations by type of fund at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and target allocations by asset category are as follows: Percentage ofPlan Assets atDecember 31, Asset Category TargetAllocations 2005 2004 Equity securities 52% 63% 61 % 62 % Debt securities 26% 34% 28 % 27 % Real estate 5% 10% 9 % 8 % Other 2% 8% 2 % 3 % Total 100 % 100 % No plan assets were invested in International Paper common stock at December 31, 2005 or 2004. At December 31, 2005, projected future pension benefit payments are as follows: In millions 2006 $525 2007 515 2008 517 2009 523 2010 536 2011 2015 2,932 Minimum Pension Liability Adjustment At December 31, 2002, International Papers qualified defined benefit pension plan had a prepaid benefit cost of approximately $1.7 billion. At this date, the market value of the plan assets was less than the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for this plan. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, the prepaid asset was reversed and an additional minimum liability of $2.7 billion was established equal to the shortfall of the market value of plan assets below the ABO plus the prepaid benefit cost. This resulted in an after tax direct charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) of $1.5 billion, with no impact on earnings, earnings per share or cash. This reduction to Shareholders equity had no adverse affect on International Papers debt covenants. Strong actual returns on plan assets in the fourth quarter of 2004 increased the market value of plan assets by more than the increase in the ABO, resulting in a reduction in the required additional minimum pension liability. As a result, a credit to after tax OCI was recognized in the amount of $41 million at December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2005, the change in the mortality assumption increased the ABO by more than plan assets requiring an after tax charge to OCI of $290 million. International Paper also incurred adjustments to the nonqualified plan additional minimum liabilities and recorded after tax charges to OCI of $14 million and $8 million, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table summarizes the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets for the qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans at December 31, 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Projected benefit obligation $9,278 $8,294 Accumulated benefit obligation 8,855 7,927 Fair value of plan assets 6,944 6,745 Unrecognized Actuarial Losses SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated projected plan benefit obligation due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected return on plan assets and other assumption changes. These net gains and losses are recognized prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans (approximately 11 years as of December 31, 2005) to the extent that they are not offset by gains and losses in subsequent years. Unrecognized actuarial losses shown in the following table were $3.2 billion and $2.6 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively. While actual future amortization charges will be affected by future gains/losses, the amortization of cumulative unrecognized losses as of December 31, 2005, is expected to increase pension expense by $68 million in 2006, while decreasing expense by $24 million in 2007 and $38 million in 2008. The following table shows the changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004, and the 71 Table of Contents plans funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. The benefit obligation as of December 31, 2005, increased by $984 million, principally as a result of the change in the mortality assumption with a smaller impact from a decrease in the discount rate used in computing the estimated benefit obligation. Plan assets increased by $199 million, principally reflecting higher actual market returns. In millions 2005 2004 Change in projected benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $8,294 $7,899 Service cost 129 115 Interest cost 474 467 Actuarial loss 833 288 Benefits paid (515 ) (537 ) Acquisitions 1 Divestitures (4 ) Restructuring 4 1 Special termination benefits 11 1 Plan amendments 52 59 Benefit obligation, December 31 $9,278 $8,294 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $6,745 $6,436 Actual return on plan assets 694 797 Company contributions 20 49 Benefits paid (515 ) (537 ) Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $6,944 $6,745 Funded status $(2,334 ) $(1,549 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 3,181 2,632 Unamortized prior service cost 310 330 Prepaid benefit costs $1,157 $1,413 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Accrued benefit liability $(1,911 ) $(1,182 ) Intangible asset 310 330 Minimum pension liability adjustment included in accumulated other comprehensive income 2,758 2,265 Net amount recognized $1,157 $1,413 NON U.S. DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Generally, International Papers non U.S. pension plans are funded using the projected benefit as a target, except in certain countries where funding of benefit plans is not required. Net periodic pension expense for non U.S. plans was as follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $11 $10 $9 Interest cost 12 11 9 Expected return on plan assets (10 ) (8 ) (6 ) Actuarial loss 2 1 1 Curtailment gain (1 ) Estimated expenses 1 Net periodic pension expense (a) $15 $15 $12 (a) Excludes $1.7 million of curtailment gains in 2005 related to the divestiture of Maresquel recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated statement of operations. Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.11 % 5.43 % 5.58 % Expected long term return on plan assets 6.68 % 6.66 % 6.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.32 % 3.50 % 3.64 % Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 4.86 % 5.55 % Rate of compensation increase 3.39 % 3.58 % The difference between the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and the assumptions used to determine net pension expense is due to Carter Holt Harvey and Weldwood divestitures being disclosed in the benefit obligation rollforward and not in the net pension expense assumptions. 72 Table of Contents The following table shows the changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004 and the plans funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. In millions 2005 2004 Change in projected benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $365 $587 Obligations for additional plans 1 9 Service cost 11 10 Interest cost 12 11 Participants contributions 3 7 Plan amendments (3 ) Divestitures (121 ) (247 ) Curtailment gains (2 ) Actuarial loss 40 10 Benefits paid (12 ) (41 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements (21 ) 22 Benefit obligation, December 31 $276 $365 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $255 $423 Assets for additional plans 2 Actual return on plan assets 30 36 Administrative expenses (3 ) Company contributions 16 47 Benefits paid (12 ) (40 ) Participants contributions 3 7 Divestitures (108 ) (230 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements (11 ) 13 Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $173 $255 Funded status $(103 ) $(110 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 57 68 Unrecognized transition asset (1 ) (1 ) Unamortized prior service cost (1 ) 2 Prepaid benefit costs $(48 ) $(41 ) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Prepaid benefit cost $2 $22 Accrued benefit liability (93 ) (111 ) Intangible asset 1 Minimum pension liability adjustment included in accumulated other comprehensive income 43 47 Net amount recognized $(48 ) $(41 ) The reductions in the benefit obligation and in plan assets in 2005 are mainly due to the sale of CHH. For non U.S. plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets totaled $232 million, $207 million, and $127 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005. Plan assets consist principally of common stock and fixed income securities. Adjustments to the non U.S. plans additional minimum liabilities at December 31, 2005, resulted in a debit to OCI of $12 million after taxes, less a credit of $11 million after taxes and minority interest related to the sale of CHH, for a net charge to OCI of $1 million. A credit of $1 million after taxes was recorded to OCI at December 31, 2004. OTHER PLANS International Paper sponsors defined contribution plans (primarily 401(k) plans) to provide substantially all U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees of International Paper an opportunity to accumulate personal funds and to provide additional benefits to employees hired after June 30, 2004, for their retirement. Contributions may be made on a before tax basis to substantially all of these plans. As determined by the provisions of each plan, International Paper matches the employees basic voluntary contributions and, for employees hired after June 30, 2004, contributes an additional percentage of pay. Such contributions to the plans totaled approximately $88 million, $87 million and $95 million for the plan years ending in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net assets of these plans were approximately $4.3 billion as of the 2005 plan year end, including approximately $666 million (15.5%) in International Paper common stock. NOTE 16 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS U.S. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS International Paper provides certain retiree health care and life insurance benefits covering a majority of U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. These employees are generally eligible for benefits upon retirement and completion of a specified number of years of creditable service. Excluded from company provided medical benefits are salaried employees whose age plus years of employment with the Company totaled less than 60 as of January 1, 2004. International Paper does not fund these benefits prior to payment and has the right to modify or terminate certain of these plans in the future. On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. This Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. 73 Table of Contents In accordance with FSP FAS 106 2, the effects of the Act on International Papers plans have been recorded prospectively beginning July 1, 2004. This resulted in a reduction of net postretirement benefit cost of approximately $8 million and a reduction of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) of approximately $110 million in 2004, which is treated as a reduction of unrecognized actuarial losses that are amortized to expense over the average remaining service period of employees eligible for postretirement benefits. The final regulations for the implementation of the Act were released on January 21, 2005. This resulted in a remeasurement of the plan that reduced net postretirement benefit costs by $14 million and reduced the APBO by $59 million in 2005. The components of postretirement benefit expense in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $2 $6 $7 Interest cost 38 52 54 Actuarial loss 20 35 23 Amortization of prior service cost (40 ) (40 ) (29 ) Net postretirement benefit cost (a) $20 $53 $55 (a) Excludes $1.8 million, $1.0 million and $5.3 million of curtailment gains in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and $0.8 million in 2005 and 2004 and $1.3 million in 2003 of special termination benefits related to cost reduction programs and facility rationalizations that were recorded in Restructuring and other charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Also excludes $4.1 million in curtailment gains in 2005 and $1 million of special termination benefits in 2005 related to certain divestitures recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated financial statements. International Paper evaluates its actuarial assumptions annually as of December 31 (the measurement date) and considers changes in these long term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The discount rates used to determine net cost for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.50 % 6.00 % 6.38 % The weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.50 % 5.75 % Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 10.00 % 10.00 % Rate that the cost trend rate gradually declines to 5.00 % 5.00 % Year that the rate reaches the rate it is assumed to remain 2010 2009 A 1% increase in the assumed annual health care cost trend rate would have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005, by approximately $35 million. A 1% decrease in the annual trend rate would have decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005, by approximately $32 million. The effect on net postretirement benefit cost from a 1% increase or decrease would be approximately $2 million. The plan is only funded in an amount equal to benefits paid. The following table presents the changes in benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Change in benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $838 $1,000 Service cost 2 6 Interest cost 38 52 Participants contributions 42 38 Actuarial gain (100 ) (118 ) Benefits paid (136 ) (138 ) Plan amendments 13 (5 ) Divestitures 1 Restructuring 3 2 Special termination benefits 2 1 Benefit obligation, December 31 $703 $838 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $ $ Company contributions 94 100 Participants contributions 42 38 Benefits paid (136 ) (138 ) Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $ $ Funded status $(703 ) $(838 ) Unamortized prior service cost (167 ) (229 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 238 357 Accrued benefit cost $(632 ) $(710 ) 74 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, estimated total future postretirement benefit payments, net of participant contributions and estimated future Medicare Part D subsidy receipts are as follows: In millions BenefitPayments SubsidyReceipts 2006 $87 $(13 ) 2007 86 (14 ) 2008 83 (15 ) 2009 81 (16 ) 2010 79 (17 ) 2011 2015 352 (90 ) NON U.S. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS In addition to the U.S. plan, certain Canadian and Brazilian employees are eligible for retiree health care and life insurance. Net postretirement benefit cost for our non U.S. plans was $3 million for 2005 and $2 million for 2004. The benefit obligation for these plans was $21 million in 2005 and $20 million in 2004. NOTE 17 INCENTIVE PLANS International Paper currently has a Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) that includes a Stock Option Program, a Restricted Performance Share Program and a Continuity Award Program, administered by a committee of nonemployee members of the Board of Directors (Committee) who are not eligible for awards. Also, stock appreciation rights (SARs) have been awarded to employees of a non U.S. subsidiary, with 5,135 and 5,435 rights outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We also have other performance based restricted share/unit programs available to senior executives and directors. International Paper applies the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations and the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, in accounting for our plans. SFAS No. 123(R) will be adopted effective January 1, 2006. As no unvested stock options were outstanding at this date, the Company believes that the adoption will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. STOCK OPTION PROGRAM International Paper accounts for stock options using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion No. 25. Under this method, compensation expense is recorded over the related service period when the market price exceeds the option price at the measurement date, which is the grant date for International Papers options. No compensation expense is recorded as options are issued with an exercise price equal to the market price of International Paper stock on the grant date. During each reporting period, fully diluted earnings per share is calculated by assuming that in the money options are exercised and the exercise proceeds are used to repurchase shares in the marketplace. When options are actually exercised, option proceeds are credited to equity and issued shares are included in the computation of earnings per common share, with no effect on reported earnings. Equity is also increased by the tax benefit that International Paper will receive in its tax return for income reported by the optionees in their individual tax returns. Under the program, officers and certain other employees may be granted options to purchase International Paper common stock. The option price is the market price of the stock on the close of business on the day prior to the date of grant. Options must be vested before they can be exercised. Upon exercise of an option, a replacement option may be granted under certain circumstances with an exercise price equal to the market price at the time of exercise and with a term extending to the expiration date of the original option. The Company discontinued its stock option program in 2004 for members of executive management, and in 2005 for all other eligible U.S. and non U.S. employees. In the United States, the stock option program was replaced with a performance based restricted share program for approximately 1,250 employees to more closely tie long term incentive compensation to Company performance on two key performance drivers: return on investment (ROI) and total shareholder return (TSR). As part of this shift in focus away from stock options to performance based restricted stock, the Company accelerated the vesting of all 14 million unvested stock options to July 12, 2005. The Company also considered the benefit to employees and the income statement impact in making its decision to accelerate the vesting of these options. Based on the market value of the Companys common stock on July 12, 2005, the exercise prices of all such stock options were above the market value and, accordingly, the Company recorded no expense as a result of this action. 75 Table of Contents For pro forma disclosure purposes (see Note 1), the fair market value of each option grant has been estimated on the date of the grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively: 2005 2004 2003 Initial Options (a) Risk Free Interest Rate 3.82 % 3.23 % 2.46 % Price Volatility 22.65 % 24.41 % 24.06 % Dividend Yield 2.53 % 2.53 % 2.71 % Expected Term in Years 3.50 3.50 3.50 Replacement Options (b) Risk Free Interest Rate 2.99 % 2.14 % 1.59 % Price Volatility 21.78 % 22.83 % 23.70 % Dividend Yield 2.42 % 2.30 % 2.57 % Expected Term in Years 0.32 1.60 1.75 (a) The average fair market values of initial option grants during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $6.78, $6.90 and $5.86, respectively. (b) The average fair market values of replacement option grants during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $2.05, $4.76 and $4.39, respectively. The following summarizes the status of the Stock Option Program and the changes during the three years ending December 31, 2005: Options (a,b) WeightedAverageExercisePrice Outstanding at December 31, 2002 37,154,020 $40.11 Granted 11,315,401 37.08 Exercised (2,778,038 ) 31.87 Forfeited (1,823,244 ) 41.19 Expired (1,062,311 ) 51.71 Outstanding at December 31, 2003 42,805,828 39.51 Granted 9,663,303 39.70 Exercised (4,726,957 ) 34.60 Forfeited (1,059,215 ) 40.86 Expired (1,248,052 ) 51.40 Outstanding at December 31, 2004 45,434,907 39.70 Granted 861,827 39.64 Exercised (602,746 ) 33.74 Forfeited (1,607,979 ) 41.44 Expired (2,504,411 ) 43.52 Outstanding at December 31, 2005 41,581,598 $39.49 (a) The table does not include Continuity Award tandem stock options described below. No fair market value is assigned to these options under SFAS No. 123. The tandem restricted shares accompanying these options are expensed over their vesting period. (b) The table includes options outstanding under an acquired company plan under which options may no longer be granted. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005: Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Prices OptionsOutstandingas of12/31/05 WeightedAverageRemainingLife WeightedAverageExercisePrice OptionsOutstandingas of12/31/05 WeightedAverageExercisePrice $29.31 $33.80 6,264,472 5.6 $ 31.77 6,264,472 $ 31.77 $33.81 $39.77 19,514,939 6.7 $ 37.25 19,514,939 $ 37.25 $39.78 $45.74 11,113,806 5.9 $ 41.34 11,113,806 $ 41.34 $45.75 $51.71 1,746,895 2.9 $ 47.42 1,746,895 $ 47.42 $51.72 $57.68 213,192 0.8 $ 54.23 213,192 $ 54.23 $57.69 $63.65 2,550,094 3.8 $ 59.14 2,550,094 $ 59.14 $63.66 $66.81 178,200 4.0 $ 64.70 178,200 $ 64.70 41,581,598 6.0 $ 39.49 41,581,598 $ 39.49 76 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE BASED RESTRICTED SHARES Under the Restricted Performance Share Program, contingent awards of International Paper common stock are granted by the Committee. Shares are earned on the basis of International Papers financial performance over a period of consecutive calendar years as determined by the Committee. Under a Restricted Performance Share Program approved during 2001 and amended in 2004, awards vesting over a three year period were granted in 2003 and 2004. In 2005, the plan was amended to provide for segmentation in which one fourth of the award vests during each twelve month period, with the final one fourth segment vesting over the full three year period. Compensation expense for this variable plan is recorded over the applicable vesting period. The following summarizes the activity of all performance based programs for the three years ending December 31, 2005: Shares Outstanding at December 31, 2002 1,277,340 Granted (a) 658,155 Issued (586,237 ) Forfeited (164,803 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2003 1,184,455 Granted (a) 1,581,442 Issued (391,691 ) Forfeited (128,957 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2004 2,245,249 Granted (a) 2,831,566 Issued (b) (519,533 ) Forfeited (361,965 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 4,195,317 (a) The weighted average fair value of performance shares granted was $41.56, $42.95 and $35.34 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (b) Includes 114,177 shares held for payout at the end of the performance period. CONTINUITY AWARD PROGRAM The Continuity Award Program provides for the granting of tandem awards of restricted stock and or nonqualified stock options to key executives. Grants are restricted and awards conditioned on attainment of specified age and years of service requirements. Awarding of a tandem stock option results in the cancellation of the related restricted shares. The Continuity Award Program also provides for awards of restricted stock to key employees. The following summarizes the activity of the Continuity Award Program for the three years ending December 31, 2005: Shares Outstanding at December 31, 2002 238,072 Granted (a) 149,500 Issued (60,912 ) Forfeited (b) (22,500 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2003 304,160 Granted (a) 31,500 Issued (22,700 ) Forfeited (b) (26,461 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2004 286,499 Granted (a) 8,000 Issued (13,000 ) Forfeited (b) (31,124 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 250,375 (a) The weighted average fair value of restricted shares granted was $43.10, $43.20 and $37.20 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (b) Also includes restricted shares canceled when tandem stock options were awarded. No tandem options were awarded in 2005, 2004 or 2003. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, a total of 21.1 million and 20.3 million shares, respectively, were available for grant under the LTICP. In 2004, shareholders had approved an additional 14 million shares to be used for grant. In 2003, shareholders had approved an additional 10 million shares to be made available for grant, with 100,000 of these shares reserved specifically for the granting of restricted stock. A total of 12.5 million shares, 14.9 million shares and 2.3 million shares were available for the granting of restricted stock as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The compensation cost charged to earnings for all the incentive plans under the LTICP was $53 million for 2005 and $29 million for both 2004 and 2003. 77 Table of Contents International Paper Company INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED) (a) In millions, except per share amounts and stock prices 1stQuarter 2ndQuarter 3rdQuarter 4thQuarter Year 2005 Net Sales $6,011 $5,916 $6,036 $6,134 $24,097 Gross Margin (b) 1,545 1,501 1,504 1,408 5,958 Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 120 (c) 259 (e) 372 (g) (165 )(i) 586 (c,e,g,i) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (31 )(d) (14 )(d) 281 (d) 5 (d) 241 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 77 (c,d) 77 (d,e,f) 1,023 (d,g,h) (77 )(d,i,j) 1,100 (c j) Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations $0.22 (c) $0.19 (e,f) $1.53 (g,h) $(0.17) (i,j) $1.77 (c,d j) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (0.06 )(d) (0.03 )(d) 0.58 (d) 0.01 (d) 0.49 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.16 (c,d) 0.16 (d,e,f) 2.11 (d,g,h) (0.16 )(d,i,j) 2.26 (c j) Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations $0.22 (c) $0.19 (e,f) $1.48 (g,h) $(0.17) (i,j) $1.74 (c,d j) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (0.06 )(d) (0.03 )(d) 0.55 (d) 0.01 (d) 0.47 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.16 (c,d) 0.16 (d,e,f) 2.03 (d,g,h) (0.16 )(d,i,j) 2.21 (c j) Dividends Per Share of Common Stock 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.00 Common Stock Prices High $42.59 $37.92 $35.05 $34.90 $42.59 Low 35.67 30.16 29.45 26.97 26.97 2004 Net Sales $5,623 $5,703 $6,016 $6,017 $23,359 Gross Margin (b) 1,412 1,515 1,604 1,603 6,134 Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 85 (k) 112 (m) 333 (o) 194 (p) 724 (k,m,o,p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 25 (l) 156 (l) (685 )(l) 13 (l) (491 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 73 (k,l) 193 (l,m,n) (470 )(l,o) 169 (l,p) (35 )(k p) Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings From Continuing Operations $0.10 (k) $0.08 (m,n) $0.44 (o) $0.32 (p) $0.94 (k,m p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 0.05 (l) 0.32 (l) (1.41 )(l) 0.03 (l) (1.01 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.15 (k,l) 0.40 (l,m,n) (0.97 )(l,o) 0.35 (l,p) (0.07 )(k p) Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings From Continuing Operations $0.10 (k) $0.08 (m,n) $0.44 (o) $0.32 (p) $0.93 (k,m p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 0.05 (l) 0.32 (l) (1.35 )(l) 0.03 (l) (1.00 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.15 (k,l) 0.40 (l,m,n) (0.91 )(l,o) 0.35 (l,p) (0.07 )(k p) Dividends Per Share of Common Stock 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.00 Common Stock Prices High $45.01 $44.81 $44.65 $42.52 $45.01 Low 39.80 37.91 38.22 37.12 37.12 Note: Since basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each period and category, full year per share amounts may not equal the sum of the four quarters. 78 Table of Contents Footnotes to Interim Financial Results (a) All periods presented have been restated to reflect the Carter Holt Harvey Limited business and the Weldwood of Canada Limited business as Discontinued operations. (b) Gross margin represents net sales less cost of products sold. (c) Includes a $24 million charge before taxes ($15 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt and a $79 million charge before taxes ($52 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses held for sale. (d) Includes net income of CHH prior to its sale in the third quarter of 2005. Also included in the 2005 third quarter is a gain of $29 million before taxes ($361 million after taxes) from the sale of CHH. (e) Includes a $31 million charge before taxes ($19 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges, a pre tax credit of $35 million ($21 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a $19 million pre tax credit ($12 million after taxes) for net adjustments of losses on businesses previously sold, and interest income of $11 million before taxes ($7 million after taxes) related to the collection of a note receivable from a 2001 sale. (f) Includes an $82 million increase in the income tax provision, including approximately $79 million for deferred taxes related to earnings repatriated during the quarter under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. (g) Includes a $44 million charge before taxes ($32 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges, a pre tax charge of $26 million ($16 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt, a pre tax credit of $188 million ($109 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a net charge of $5 million before taxes ($3 million after taxes) for adjustments of losses on businesses previously sold, a $3 million pre tax credit ($2 million after taxes) for the net adjustment of previously provided reserves, and interest income of $43 million before taxes ($26 million after taxes) relating to a tax audit agreement. (h) Includes a $517 million net reduction of the income tax provision, including a credit of $553 million from an agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a charge of $21 million related to cash repatriations from non U.S. subsidiaries, and a charge of $15 million relating to a change in Ohio state tax laws. (i) Includes a $199 million charge before taxes ($123 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges associated with the Companys previously announced Transformation Plan, a $27 million charge before taxes ($16 million after taxes) for legal reserves, a $7 million charge before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a $35 million pretax credit ($21 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a pretax charge of $46 million ($30 million after taxes) for adjustments of estimated losses on businesses sold or held for sale, and a $1 million credit for adjustments of previously provided reserves. (j) Includes an $11 million tax benefit, reflecting a $74 million favorable adjustment from the finalization of the Companys 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audit, a $43 million provision for deferred taxes related to earnings being repatriated under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and $20 million of other tax charges. (k) Includes a $14 million charge before taxes ($9 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a $16 million charge before taxes ($10 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $9 million before taxes ($6 million after taxes) to adjust estimated gains/losses of businesses previously sold, and a credit of $7 million before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. (l) Includes net income of Weldwood of Canada, Limited, and CHH prior to their sales. Also included in the 2004 second quarter is a gain of $268 million before taxes and minority interest ($90 million after taxes and minority interest) from the sale of the CHH Tissue business in the 2004 third quarter, and a charge of $306 million before taxes ($716 million after taxes) to write down the assets of Weldwood to their estimated net realizable value. The 2004 fourth quarter also includes a charge of $17 million before taxes ($5 million credit after taxes) to adjust the loss on the sale of Weldwood. (m) Includes a $32 million charge before taxes ($20 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a $65 million charge before taxes ($40 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a charge of $31 million before taxes ($29 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses held for sale, and a credit of $6 million before taxes ($3 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. 79 Table of Contents (n) Includes a $32 million increase in the income tax provision reflecting an adjustment of deferred tax balances. (o) Includes an $18 million charge before taxes ($11 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a charge of $8 million before taxes ($5 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $103 million before taxes ($64 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a net charge of $38 million before and after taxes for estimated losses of businesses sold or held for sale, and a credit of $6 million before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. (p) Includes a $10 million charge before taxes ($6 million after taxes) for litigation settlements, a $3 million charge before taxes ($2 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $20 million before taxes ($12 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a charge of $79 million before taxes ($64 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses sold or held for sale, and a credit of $17 million before taxes ($11 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. 80 Table of Contents ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Controls and Procedures: As of December 31, 2005, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rule 13a 15 under the Securities Exchange Act (the Act). Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported by the management of the Company on a timely basis in order to comply with the Companys disclosure obligations under the Act and the SEC rules thereunder. Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting, including the safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition. These controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding preparation of reliable published financial statements and such asset safeguarding, and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded properly to allow for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements; and provide reasonable assurance as to the detection of fraud. All internal control systems have inherent limitations, including the possibility of circumvention and overriding of controls, and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance as to such financial statement preparation and asset safeguarding. The system is supported by written policies and procedures, contains self monitoring mechanisms, and is audited by the internal audit function. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct deficiencies as they are identified. As of December 31, 2005, management has assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. In a report included on page 38, management concluded that, based on its assessment, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, we used the criteria described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, with direct access to our Board of Directors through our Audit Committee, have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by us. Their report on the consolidated financial statements is included in Part II, 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Prior year industry segment information has been restated to conform to the 2005 management structure and to reflect the Carter Holt Harvey Limited and Weldwood of Canada Limited businesses as discontinued operations. INFORMATION BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT NET SALES In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 7,860 $ 7,670 $ 7,280 Industrial Packaging 4,935 4,830 4,170 Consumer Packaging 2,590 2,605 2,465 Distribution 6,380 6,065 5,860 Forest Products 2,575 2,395 2,390 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 915 1,120 1,235 Corporate and Intersegment Sales (1,158 ) (1,326 ) (1,262 ) Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 ASSETS In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 9,033 $ 9,171 $ 8,953 Industrial Packaging 4,259 4,184 3,845 Consumer Packaging 2,647 2,681 2,649 Distribution 1,624 1,515 1,458 Forest Products (b) 2,973 3,068 3,324 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 652 652 626 Corporate and other (c) 7,583 12,946 14,670 Assets $ 28,771 $ 34,217 $ 35,525 OPERATING PROFIT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 552 $ 581 $ 464 Industrial Packaging 230 380 264 Consumer Packaging 126 161 183 Distribution 84 87 80 Forest Products 927 793 720 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 4 38 23 Operating Profit 1,923 2,040 1,734 Interest expense, net (593 ) (710 ) (705 ) Minority interest (d) 5 3 Corporate items, net (597 ) (469 ) (466 ) Restructuring and other charges (298 ) (166 ) (286 ) Insurance recoveries 258 123 Reversals of reserves no longer required 4 36 39 Net gains (losses) on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale (111 ) (135 ) (34 ) Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes, Minority Interest and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes $ 586 $ 724 $ 285 36 Table of Contents RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 26 $ $ 26 Industrial Packaging 4 2 Consumer Packaging 1 28 Distribution 7 Forest Products (e) 16 31 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 13 69 Corporate 298 166 123 Restructuring and Other Charges $ 358 $ 166 $ 286 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (f) In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 693 $ 700 $ 682 Industrial Packaging 240 241 230 Consumer Packaging 166 164 166 Distribution 19 17 14 Forest Products (g) 101 111 119 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 31 27 25 Corporate 126 97 111 Depreciation and Amortization $ 1,376 $ 1,357 $ 1,347 EXTERNAL SALES BY MAJOR PRODUCT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 6,971 $ 6,486 $ 6,069 Industrial Packaging 4,900 4,617 4,040 Consumer Packaging 2,796 2,715 2,580 Distribution 6,389 6,306 6,191 Forest Products 2,340 2,559 2,522 Other (h) 701 676 736 Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 (a) Includes Arizona Chemical and certain other smaller businesses identified in the Companys divestiture program. (b) Includes $2.2 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.6 billion for Forest Resources, and $739 million, $693 million and $710 million for Wood Products, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (c) Includes corporate assets and assets of discontinued operations. (d) Operating profits for industry segments include each segments percentage share of the profits of subsidiaries included in that segment that are less than wholly owned. The pre tax minority interest for these subsidiaries is added here to present consolidated earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interest, extraordinary items, and cumulative effect of accounting changes. INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA NET SALES (i) In millions 2005 2004 2003 United States (j) $ 19,886 $ 19,167 $ 18,138 Europe 2,809 3,056 2,928 Pacific Rim 328 216 208 Americas, other than U.S. 1,074 920 864 Net Sales $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 EUROPEAN SALES BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT In millions 2005 2004 2003 Printing Papers $ 1,364 $ 1,370 $ 1,291 Industrial Packaging 851 869 804 Consumer Packaging 21 22 18 Distribution 1 2 9 Specialty Businesses and Other (a) 572 793 806 European Sales $ 2,809 $ 3,056 $ 2,928 LONG LIVED ASSETS (k) In millions 2005 2004 2003 United States $ 11,218 $ 11,764 $ 12,102 Europe 1,474 1,489 1,334 Americas, other than U.S. 875 718 629 Asia 142 114 98 Corporate 282 288 307 Long Lived Assets $ 13,991 $ 14,373 $ 14,470 (e) Includes $10 million for Forest Resources and $6 million for Wood Products in 2005, and $31 million for Wood Products in 2003. (f) Includes cost of timber harvested. (g) Includes $51 million, $60 million and $74 million for Forest Resources, and $50 million, $50 million and $45 million for Wood Products, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (h) Includes sales of products not included in our major product lines. (i) Net sales are attributed to countries based on location of seller. (j) Export sales to unaffiliated customers were $1.5 billion in 2005, $1.5 billion in 2004 and $1.4 billion in 2003. (k) Long Lived Assets includes Forestlands and Plants, Properties and Equipment, net. 37 Table of Contents REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The management of International Paper Company is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in this annual report and for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America considered appropriate in the circumstances to present fairly the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows on a consistent basis. Management has also prepared the other information in this annual report and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the consolidated financial statements. As can be expected in a complex and dynamic business environment, some financial statement amounts are based on estimates and judgments. Even though estimates and judgments are used, measures have been taken to provide reasonable assurance of the integrity and reliability of the financial information contained in this annual report. We have formed a Disclosure Committee to oversee this process. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been audited by the independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP. During their audits, Deloitte & Touche LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of stockholders and the board of directors and all committees of the board. Management believes that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audits were valid and appropriate. INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of International Paper Company is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting including the safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition. These controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the board of directors regarding preparation of reliable published financial statements and such asset safeguarding. All internal control systems have inherent limitations, including the possibility of circumvention and overriding of controls, and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance as to such financial statement preparation and asset safeguarding. The system is supported by written policies and procedures, contains self monitoring mechanisms, and is audited by the internal audit function. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct deficiencies as they are identified. The Company has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, it used the criteria described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2005, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is effective. International Paper completed the acquisition of a majority share of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), a leading Moroccan corrugated packaging company, on October 14, 2005. Due to the timing of the acquisition, we have excluded CMCP from our evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. For the period ended December 31, 2005, sales and assets of CMCP represented less than 1% of total revenues and less than 1% of total assets. The Companys independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued their report on managements assessment and a report on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. The report appears on pages 40 and 41. INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERSIGHT Our internal control environment includes an enterprise wide attitude of integrity and control consciousness that establishes a positive tone at the top. This is exemplified by our ethics program that includes long standing principles and policies on ethical business conduct that require employees to maintain the highest ethical and legal standards in the conduct of International Paper business, which have been distributed to all employees; a toll free telephone helpline whereby any employee may anonymously report suspected violations of law or International Papers policy; and an office of ethics and business practice. The internal control system further includes careful selection and training of supervisory and management personnel, appropriate delegation of authority and division of responsibility, dissemination of accounting and business policies throughout International Paper, and an extensive program of internal audits with management follow up. The Board of Directors, assisted by the Audit and Finance Committee (Committee), monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements and financial reporting procedures, the performance of the Companys internal audit function and independent auditors, and other matters set forth in its charter. The Committee, which currently consists of four independent directors, meets regularly with representatives of management, and with the independent auditors 38 Table of Contents and the Internal Auditor, with and without management representatives in attendance, to review their activities. The Committees Charter takes into account the New York Stock Exchange rules relating to Audit Committees and the SEC rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. A copy of the charter will be included in the Companys Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders in 2006. The Committee has reviewed and discussed the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, including critical accounting policies and significant management judg ments, with management and the independent auditors. The Committees report recommending the inclusion of such financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K/A will be set forth in our Proxy Statement. JOHN V. FARACI CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MARIANNE M. PARRS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 39 Table of Contents REPORT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM, ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Shareholders of International Paper Company: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of International Paper Company and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of operations, changes in shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Paper Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. New York, N.Y. March 2, 2006  REPORT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM, ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING To the Shareholders of International Paper Company: We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, that International Paper Company and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in the Report of Management on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from their assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), which was acquired on October 14, 2005, and whose financial statements reflect less than 1% of total assets and total revenues, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at CMCP. The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally 40 Table of Contents accepted in the United States. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, managements assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 of the Company and our reports dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule. New York, N.Y. March 2, 2006  41 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS In millions, except per share amounts, for the years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 NET SALES $ 24,097 $ 23,359 $ 22,138 COSTS AND EXPENSES Cost of products sold 18,139 17,225 16,443 Selling and administrative expenses 1,876 1,935 1,888 Depreciation, amortization and cost of timber harvested 1,376 1,357 1,347 Distribution expenses 1,087 1,026 954 Taxes other than payroll and income taxes 233 236 235 Restructuring and other charges 358 166 286 Insurance recoveries (258 ) (123 ) Net losses on sales and impairments of businessesheld for sale 111 139 34 Reversals of reserves no longer required, net (4 ) (36 ) (39 ) Interest expense, net 593 710 705 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONSBEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY INTEREST 586 724 285 Income tax provision (benefit) (285 ) 242 (56 ) Minority interest expense, net of taxes 12 26 83 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 859 456 258 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 241 (491 ) 57 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (10 ) Variable interest entities (3 ) NET EARNINGS (LOSS) $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 BASIC EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE Earnings from continuing operations $ 1.77 $ 0.94 $ 0.54 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 0.49 (1.01 ) 0.12 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (0.02 ) Variable interest entities (0.01 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 2.26 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 DILUTED EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE Earnings from continuing operations $ 1.74 $ 0.93 $ 0.53 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest 0.47 (1.00 ) 0.13 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes: Asset retirement obligations (0.02 ) Variable interest entities (0.01 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 2.21 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 42 Table of Contents International Paper Company CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET In millions at December 31 2005 2004 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and temporary investments $ 1,641 $ 2,180 Accounts and notes receivable, less allowances of $110 in 2005 and $124 in 2004 2,926 2,743 Inventories 2,434 2,371 Assets of businesses held for sale 14 4,729 Deferred income tax assets 279 410 Other current assets 115 153 Total Current Assets 7,409 12,586 Plants, Properties and Equipment, net 11,801 12,216 Forestlands 2,190 2,157 Investments 625 655 Goodwill 5,043 4,994 Deferred Charges and Other Assets 1,703 1,609 Total Assets $ 28,771 $ 34,217 LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Notes payable and current maturities of long term debt $ 1,181 $ 222 Accounts payable 2,085 2,026 Accrued payroll and benefits 425 425 Liabilities of businesses held for sale 36 3,165 Other accrued liabilities 1,117 1,496 Total Current Liabilities 4,844 7,334 Long Term Debt 11,023 13,632 Deferred Income Taxes 726 1,118 Other Liabilities 3,616 3,691 Minority Interest 211 188 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Note 10 Common Shareholders Equity Common stock, $1 par value, 2005 490.5 shares, 2004 487.5 shares 491 487 Paid in capital 6,627 6,562 Retained earnings 3,172 2,562 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,935 ) (1,357 ) 8,355 8,254 Less: Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 2005 0.1 shares 4 Total Common Shareholders Equity 8,351 8,254 Total Liabilities and Common Shareholders Equity $ 28,771 $ 34,217 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 43 Table of Contents International Paper Company CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In millions for the years ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net earnings (loss) $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of taxes 13 Discontinued operations, net of taxes and minority interest (241 ) 491 (57 ) Earnings from continuing operations 859 456 258 Depreciation, amortization and cost of timber harvested 1,376 1,357 1,347 Tax benefit non cash settlement of tax audits (627 ) Deferred income tax benefit, net (38 ) (78 ) (336 ) Restructuring and other charges 358 166 286 Insurance recoveries (258 ) (123 ) Payments related to restructuring and legal reserves (185 ) (220 ) (252 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required, net (4 ) (36 ) (39 ) Periodic pension expense, net 243 111 60 Proceeds on Maine timberlands transaction 242 Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale 111 139 34 Other, net 234 138 182 Changes in current assets and liabilities Accounts and notes receivable 17 (62 ) 87 Inventories (16 ) (69 ) 51 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (629 ) 49 (117 ) Other 37 (4 ) (32 ) Cash provided by operations continuing operations 1,478 2,066 1,529 Cash provided by operations discontinued operations 32 322 293 Cash Provided by Operations 1,510 2,388 1,822 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Invested in capital projects Continuing operations (1,155 ) (1,176 ) (993 ) Businesses sold and held for sale (17 ) (37 ) (38 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (116 ) (186 ) Proceeds from divestitures 1,440 867 71 Other 73 300 (184 ) Cash provided by (used for) investment activities continuing operations 225 (232 ) (1,144 ) Cash (used for) provided by investment activities discontinued operations (218 ) 287 (123 ) Cash Provided by (Used for) Investment Activities 7 55 (1,267 ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Issuance of common stock 23 164 80 Issuance of debt 968 2,536 2,116 Reduction of debt (2,670 ) (4,219 ) (641 ) Redemption of preferred securities of a subsidiary (550 ) Change in book overdrafts 4 (145 ) 104 Dividends paid (490 ) (485 ) (480 ) Sale of minority interest 150 Other (40 ) (68 ) 7 Cash (used for) provided by financing activities continuing operations (2,205 ) (2,217 ) 786 Cash used for financing activities discontinued operations (172 ) (218 ) (195 ) Cash (Used For) Provided By Financing Activities (2,377 ) (2,435 ) 591 Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash Continuing Operations (90 ) 111 74 Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash Discontinued Operations (5 ) 114 69 Change in Cash and Temporary Investments (955 ) 233 1,289 Cash and Temporary Investments Beginning of the year 2,596 2,363 1,074 End of the year 1,641 2,596 2,363 Less Cash, End of Year Discontinued Operations (416 ) (105 ) Cash, End of Year Continuing Operations $ 1,641 $ 2,180 $ 2,258 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to separately disclose the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 44 Table of Contents International Paper Company INTERNATIONAL PAPER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY In millions, except share and per share amounts in thousands Common StockIssued Paid in Capital Retained Earnings AccumulatedOtherComprehensive Income(Loss) (1) Treasury Stock TotalCommonShareholders Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount BALANCE, JANUARY 1, 2003 484,760 $ 485 $ 6,493 $ 3,260 $ (2,645 ) 5,680 $ 219 $ 7,374 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 402 7 (2,725 ) (105 ) 112 Repurchase of stock 713 26 (26 ) Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (480 ) (480 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net earnings 302 302 Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $94) 150 150 Non U.S. plans (less tax of $2) (4 ) (4 ) Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $51) 808 808 Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $38) 66 66 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $36) (65 ) (65 ) Total comprehensive income 1,257 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2003 485,162 485 6,500 3,082 (1,690 ) 3,668 140 8,237 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 2,333 2 62 (3,652 ) (140 ) 204 Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (485 ) (485 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net loss (35 ) (35 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $20) 33 33 Non U.S. plans (less tax of $5) 1 1 Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $17) 255 255 Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $19) 70 70 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $13) (26 ) (26 ) Total comprehensive income 298 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2004 487,495 487 6,562 2,562 (1,357 ) 16 8,254 Issuance of stock for various plans, net 3,006 4 65 96 4 65 Cash dividends Common stock ($1.00 per share) (490 ) (490 ) Comprehensive income (loss): Net earnings 1,100 1,100 Minimum pension liability adjustment: U.S. plans (less tax of $189) (304 ) (304 ) Non U.S. plans (less tax of $5) (1 ) (1 ) Change in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (less tax of $22) (251 ) (251 ) Net gains on cash flow hedging derivatives: Net gain arising during the period (less tax of $14) 46 46 Less: Reclassificaton adjustment for gains included in net income (less tax of $30) (68 ) (68 ) Total comprehensive income 522 BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2005 490,501 $ 491 $ 6,627 $ 3,172 $ (1,935 ) 112 $ 4 $ 8,351 (1) The cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment (in millions) was $(280), $(29) and $(284) at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 45 Table of Contents NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF BUSINESS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS International Paper is a global forest products, paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in the United States, Europe, South America and Asia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to available industry capacity and general economic conditions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that require the use of managements estimates. Actual results could differ from managements estimates. CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of International Paper and its wholly owned, controlled majority owned and financially controlled subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Investments in affiliated companies are accounted for by the equity method, including companies owned 20% to 50%. International Papers share of affiliates earnings totaled $17 million, $14 million and $4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognized when the customer takes title and assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment for terms designated f.o.b. (free on board) shipping point. For sales transactions designated f.o.b. destination, revenue is recorded when the product is delivered to the customers delivery site, when title and risk of loss are transferred. Timber and timberland sales revenue is generally recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the buyer. SHIPPING AND HANDLING COSTS Shipping and handling costs, such as freight to our customers destinations, are included in distribution expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. When shipping and handling costs are included in the sales price charged for our products, they are recognized in net sales. ANNUAL MAINTENANCE COSTS Annual maintenance costs for major planned maintenance shutdowns (in excess of $1 million) are expensed ratably over the year in which the maintenance shutdowns occur since the Company believes that operations benefit throughout the year from the maintenance work performed. These costs, including manufacturing variances and out of pocket costs that are directly related to the shutdown, are fully expensed in the year of the shutdown, with no amounts remaining deferred at year end. Other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS Temporary investments with an original maturity of three months or less are treated as cash equivalents and are stated at cost, which approximates market. INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market and include all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. In the United States, costs of raw materials, finished lumber and panels and finished pulp and paper products are generally determined using the last in, first out method. Other inventories are valued using the first in, first out or average cost methods. PLANTS, PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT Plants, properties and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for betterments are capitalized, whereas normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. The units of production method of depreciation is used for major pulp and paper mills and certain wood products facilities, and the straight line method is used for other plants and equipment. Annual straight line depreciation rates are, for buildings 2 1/2% to 8 1/2%, and, for machinery and equipment 5% to 33%. FORESTLANDS At December 31, 2005, International Paper and its subsidiaries owned or managed about 6.5 million acres of forestlands in the United States, 1.3 million acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. Forestlands include owned property as well as certain timber harvesting rights with terms of one or more years, and are stated at cost, less cost of timber harvested (COTH). Costs attributable to timber are charged against income as trees are cut. The rate charged is determined annually based on the relationship of incurred costs to estimated current merchantable volume. 46 Table of Contents GOODWILL Goodwill relating to a single business reporting unit is included as an asset of the applicable segment, while goodwill arising from major acquisitions that involve multiple business segments is classified as a corporate asset for segment reporting purposes. For goodwill impairment testing, this goodwill is allocated to business segments. Annual testing for possible goodwill impairment is performed as of the end of the third quarter of each year. No impairment charges were recorded in 2005 or 2004. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS Long lived assets are reviewed for impairment upon the occurrence of events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as measured by comparing their net book value to the projected undiscounted future cash flows generated by their use. Impaired assets are recorded at their estimated fair value. INCOME TAXES International Paper uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes whereby deferred income taxes are recorded for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are revalued to reflect new tax rates in the periods rate changes are enacted. International Paper records its worldwide tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which it operates. Where the Company believes that the deduction of an item is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is deducted in its income tax returns. However, where treatment of an item is uncertain, tax accruals are recorded based upon the expected most probable outcome taking into consideration the specific tax regulations and facts of each matter, the results of historical negotiated settlements, and the results of consultations with outside specialists. These accruals are recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the reserves are only made when an identifiable event occurs that changes the probable outcome, such as a settlement with the relevant tax authority, the expiration of statutes of limitation for the subject tax year, a change in tax laws, or a recent court case that addresses the matter. While the Company believes that these judgments and estimates are appropriate and reasonable under current circumstances, actual resolution of these matters may differ from recorded estimated amounts. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION Stock options and other stock based compensation awards are accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. Had compensation cost for International Papers stock based compensation programs been determined consistent with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, its net earnings, earnings per common share and earnings per common share assuming dilution would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated in the following table: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Net Earnings (Loss) As reported $ 1,100 $ (35 ) $ 302 Pro forma 1,043 (73 ) 258 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share As reported $ 2.26 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 Pro forma 2.15 (0.15 ) 0.54 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share assuming dilution As reported $ 2.21 $ (0.07 ) $ 0.63 Pro forma 2.10 (0.15 ) 0.54 The effect on 2005, 2004 and 2003 pro forma net earnings, earnings per common share and earnings per common share assuming dilution of expensing the estimated fair market value of stock options is not necessarily representative of the effect on reported earnings for future years due to the vesting period of stock options and decreases in the number of options outstanding due to the elimination of the Companys stock option program for all U.S. employees in 2005. ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION COSTS Costs associated with environmental remediation obligations are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations are discounted to their present value when the amount and timing of expected cash payments are reliably determinable. 47 Table of Contents ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, a liability and an asset are recorded equal to the present value of the estimated costs associated with the retirement of long lived assets where a legal or contractual obligation exists and the liability can be reasonably estimated. The liability is accreted over time and the asset is depreciated over the life of the related equipment or facility. International Papers asset retirement obligations under this standard relate to closure costs for landfills. Revisions to the liability could occur due to changes in the estimated costs or timing of closures, or possible new federal or state regulations affecting these closures. TRANSLATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheets of international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at year end exchange rates, while statements of operations are translated at average rates. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). See Note 13 related to derivatives and hedging activities. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. Certain prior year amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to separately disclose the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations. NOTE 2 EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes are computed by dividing earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, assuming dilution, were computed assuming that all potentially dilutive securities, including in the money stock options, were converted into common shares at the beginning of each year. In addition, the computation of diluted earnings per share reflects the inclusion of contingently convertible securities in periods when dilutive. A reconciliation of the amounts included in the computation of earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, and earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, assuming dilution, is as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 859 $ 456 $ 258 Effect of dilutive securities 27 Earnings from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes assuming dilution $ 886 $ 456 $ 258 Average common shares outstanding 486.0 485.8 479.6 Effect of dilutive securities Restricted shares 0.8 Stock options 2.9 2.6 1.5 Contingently convertible debt 20.0 Average common shares outstanding assuming dilution 509.7 488.4 481.1 Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes $ 1.77 $ 0.94 $ 0.54 Earnings per common share from continuing operations before the cumulative effect of accounting changes assuming dilution $ 1.74 $ 0.93 $ 0.53 Note: If an amount does not appear in the above table, the security was antidilutive for the period presented. NOTE 3 INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION Financial information by industry segment and geographic area for 2005, 2004 and 2003 is presented on pages 36 and 37. NOTE 4 RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS ACCOUNTING CHANGES AND ERROR CORRECTIONS: In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. This Statement does not change the transition 48 Table of Contents provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements, including those that are in a transition phase as of the effective date of the Statement. ACCOUNTING FOR CONDITIONAL ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS: In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. This Interpretation clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB Statement No. 143 refers to the fact that a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists to make a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation. International Paper adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the fourth quarter of 2005 with no material affect on its consolidated financial statements. The Companys principal conditional asset retirement obligations relate to the potential future closure or redesign of certain of its production facilities. In connection with any such activity, it is possible that the Company may be required to take steps to remove certain materials from the facilities, or to remediate in accordance with federal and state laws that govern the handling of certain hazardous or potentially hazardous materials. Applicable regulations and standards provide that the removal of certain materials would only be required if the facility were to be demolished or underwent major renovations. At this time, any such obligations have an indeterminate settlement date, and the Company believes that adequate information does not exist to apply an expected present value technique to estimate any such potential obligations. Accordingly, the Company does not record a liability for such remediation until a decision is made that allows reasonable estimation of the timing of such remediation. IMPLICIT VARIABLE INTERESTS: In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN 46(R) 5, Implicit Variable Interests Under FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. This FSP states that implicit variable interests are implied financial interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the entitys net assets exclusive of variable interests. An implicit variable interest acts the same as an explicit variable interest except it involves the absorbing and (or) receiving of variability indirectly from the entity (rather than directly). The identification of an implicit variable interest is a matter of judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances. International Paper applied the provisions of FSP FIN 46(R) 5 in the second quarter of 2005, with no material affect on its consolidated financial statements. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES: In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP Financial Accounting Standards 109 1 and 109 2 relating to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act provides for a special one time deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. In 2005, International Paper repatriated $2.1 billion in cash from certain of its foreign subsidiaries, including amounts eligible for this special deduction. International Paper recorded income tax expenses associated with these cash repatriations totaling approximately $142 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. SHARE BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS: In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, that will require compensation costs related to share based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. The amount of the compensation cost will be measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. In addition, liability awards will be remeasured each reporting period. Compensation cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the award. This Statement will apply to all awards granted after the required effective date and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) deferred the effective date of this Statement until the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1 and 17 for a further discussion of stock options. EXCHANGES OF NONMONETARY ASSETS: In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, that replaces the exception from fair value measurement in APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets with a general exception from fair value measurement for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. This Statement is to be applied prospectively and is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. 49 Table of Contents International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 153 in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. INVENTORY COSTS: In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. This Statement requires that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material be recognized as current period charges. This Statement also introduces the concept of normal capacity and requires the allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. Unallocated overhead must be recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. This Statement will be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. International Paper believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 in 2006 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ACCOUNTING FOR MEDICARE BENEFITS: In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP FAS 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, that provides guidance on the accounting and required disclosures for the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. International Paper adopted FSP FAS 106 2 prospectively in the third quarter of 2004. See Note 16 for a further discussion. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES: In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. This Interpretation changed existing consolidation rules for certain entities, those in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance the entitys activities without additional subordinated financial support. International Paper applied FIN 46(R) to its variable interest entities in 2003 and, consequently, recorded a non cash, after tax charge of $3 million as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. NOTE 5 ACQUISITIONS On July 1, 2004, International Paper completed the acquisition of Box USA Holdings, Inc. (Box USA). The operating results of Box USA are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from that date. International Paper acquired all of the outstanding common and preferred stock of Box USA for approximately $189 million in cash and a $15 million 6% note payable issued to Box USAs controlling shareholders. In addition, International Paper assumed approximately $197 million of debt, approximately $193 million of which was repaid by July 31, 2004. The note payable is required to be paid unless claims for indemnification are offset against the note. Subsequent claims for indemnification totaling $5.5 million reduced the note payable to $9.5 million plus interest payable. The first installment of $3 million plus interest was paid in the third quarter of 2005. The remaining installments to be paid are $2 million in 2006 and $4.5 million in 2009, subject to any additional claims for indemnification. The following table summarizes the assets and liabilities assumed at the date of the Box USA acquisition: In millions July 1, 2004 Current assets $98 Property, plant and equipment, net 90 Goodwill 260 Other assets 51 Total assets acquired 499 Current liabilities 97 Debt 197 Other liabilities 6 Total liabilities assumed 300 Net assets acquired $199 The following unaudited pro forma information for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, presents the combined results of the continuing operations of International Paper and Box USA as if the acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2003. This pro forma information does not purport to represent International Papers actual results of operations if the transaction described above would have occurred on January 1, 2003, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results. In millions, except per share amounts, for the years endedDecember 31, 2004 2003 Net sales $ 23,613 $ 22,631 Earnings from continuing operations 461 263 Net (loss) earnings (30 ) 307 Earnings from continuing operations per common share 0.94 0.55 Net (loss) earnings per common share assuming dilution (0.06 ) 0.64 OTHER ACQUISITIONS: In October 2005, International Paper acquired approximately 65% of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers (CMCP), a leading Moroccan corrugated 50 Table of Contents packaging company, for approximately $80 million in cash plus assumed debt of approximately $40 million. In 2001, International Paper and Carter Holt Harvey Limited (CHH) each acquired a 25% interest in International Paper Pacific Millennium Limited (IPPM). IPPM is a Hong Kong based distribution and packaging company with operations in China and other Asian countries. On August 1, 2005, pursuant to an existing agreement, International Paper purchased a 50% third party interest in IPPM (now renamed International Paper Distribution Limited) for $46.1 million to facilitate possible further growth in Asia. The financial position and results of operations of these two acquisitions have been included in International Papers consolidated financial statements from the dates of acquisition in 2005. The accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 includes preliminary estimates of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, including approximately $50 million of goodwill. NOTE 6 RESTRUCTURING, BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AND OTHER CHARGES This footnote discusses restructuring, business improvement and other charges recorded for each of the three years included in the period ended December 31, 2005. It includes a summary of activity for each year, a roll forward associated with severance and other cash costs arising in each year, a table presenting details of the 2005 and 2004 organizational restructuring programs, and tables showing quarterly charges by business along with explanations for 2003. 2005: During 2005, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $358 million ($225 million after taxes) were recorded. Included in this charge were a pre tax charge of $274 million ($174 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, principally costs associated with the Companys previously announced Transformation Plan, a pre tax charge of $57 million ($35 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt, and a $27 million pre tax charge ($16 million after taxes) for legal reserves. Also recorded were pre tax credits of $258 million ($151 million after taxes) for net insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation (see Note 10) and a $4 million pre tax credit ($3 million after taxes) for the net adjustment of previously provided reserves. In addition, a $446 million net reduction of the income tax provision was recorded, including a credit of $627 million from an agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a $142 million charge related to cash repatriations from non U.S. subsidiaries, and $39 million of other tax charges. Interest expense, net, also includes a $43 million pre tax credit ($26 million after taxes) relating to the tax audit agreement. The following table presents a detail of the $274 million corporate wide organizational restructuring charge by business: In millions SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter Total Printing Papers $17 (a) $17 (c) $150 (e) $184 Industrial Packaging 4 10 14 Consumer Packaging 1 1 2 Forest Products 14 (b) 2 14 (f) 30 Distribution 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other 13 (d) 13 Corporate 7 20 (g) 27 $31 $44 $199 $274 (a) Includes charges for severance and other charges for the indefinite shutdown of three U.S. paper machines. (b) Includes charges associated with the relocation of the Forest Products headquarters from Savannah, Georgia to Memphis, Tennessee. (c) Includes $6 million of additional severance charges related to the indefinite shutdown of the three U.S. paper machines. (d) Represents charges related to the shutdown of a plant in Norway. (e) Includes charges of $50 million related to the shutdown of paper machines at Jay, Maine, Bastrop, Louisiana, and Pensacola, Florida, and a charge of $95 million to write down the assets of the Bastrop, Louisiana mill to their estimated net realizable value of $105 million. (f) Includes $10 million of charges related to the closure of the Joplin, Missouri facility, and $2 million of charges related to the relocation of the Forest Products headquarters from Savannah, Georgia to Memphis, Tennessee. (g) Includes $2 million of charges related to the relocation of International Papers headquarters from Stamford, Connecticut to Memphis, Tennessee, and $12 million of transformation costs. 51 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the organizational restructuring charge discussed above: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers $153 $31 $184 Industrial Packaging 4 10 14 Consumer Packaging 2 2 Forest Products 6 24 30 Distribution 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other 7 6 13 Corporate 27 27 $170 $104 $274 The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2005 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (second quarter 2005) $29 Additions (third quarter 2005) 25 Additions (fourth quarter 2005) 50 2005 Activity Cash charges (54 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (10 ) Balance, December 31, 2005 $40 The severance charges recorded in 2005 related to 855 employees. As of December 31, 2005, 661 employees had been terminated. 2004: During 2004, restructuring and other charges before taxes of $166 million ($103 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $64 million charge before taxes ($40 million after taxes) for a corporate wide organizational restructuring program, a $92 million charge before taxes ($57 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt and a $10 million charge before taxes ($6 million after taxes) for legal settlements. In addition, credits of $123 million before taxes ($76 million after taxes) for net insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation and $36 million before taxes ($22 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer needed were recorded. Also, a $32 million charge was recorded for an adjustment of deferred tax balances. The following table presents a detail of the $64 million corporate wide organizational restructuring program charge in 2004, by business: In millions FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter Total Printing Papers $1 $1 $5 $7 Industrial Packaging 1 1 5 7 Consumer Packaging 4 2 1 7 Forest Products 4 1 5 Distribution 2 2 3 7 Specialty Businesses and Other 11 11 Administrative Support Groups 2 14 4 20 $14 $32 $18 $64 The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2004 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (first quarter 2004) $14 Additions (second quarter 2004) 32 Additions (third quarter 2004) 18 2004 Activity Cash charges (42 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (22 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ The severance charges recorded in 2004 related to 744 employees. As of December 31, 2004, 616 employees had been terminated and 128 employees retained. Actual pension and postretirement costs exceeded estimates despite the lower number of employees terminated. 2003: During 2003, restructuring and other charges of $286 million before taxes ($180 million after taxes) were recorded. These charges included a $224 million charge before taxes ($140 million after taxes) for asset shutdowns of excess internal capacity and cost reduction actions, a $63 million charge before taxes ($39 million after taxes) for legal reserves, and a $1 million credit before taxes ($1 million charge after taxes) for early debt retirement costs. In addition, a $39 million credit before taxes ($24 million after taxes) was recorded for the net reversal of restructuring reserves no longer required. 52 Table of Contents The $224 million charge in 2003 for the asset shutdowns of excess internal capacity and cost reduction actions consisted of a $80 million charge in the fourth quarter, a $71 million charge in the third quarter, a $51 million charge in the second quarter, and a $22 million charge in the first quarter. The fourth quarter charge included $45 million of asset write downs and $35 million of severance and other charges. The third quarter charge included $9 million of asset write downs and $62 million of severance and other charges. The second quarter charge consisted of $16 million of asset write downs and $35 million of severance and other charges. The first quarter charge included $2 million of asset write downs and $20 million of severance and other charges. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 fourth quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers (a) $19 $2 $21 Consumer Packaging (b) 16 6 22 Forest Products (c) 10 1 11 Distribution (d) 3 3 Administrative Support Groups (e) 23 23 $45 $35 $80 (a) The Printing Papers business recorded a charge of $5 million to write off certain assets at the Courtland, Alabama and Franklin, Virginia mills. Management also approved a $14 million charge to write down the assets of the Maresquel, France mill to its net realizable value of approximately $5 million. The Printing Papers business also recorded a charge of $2 million for severance costs relating to 42 employees associated with a manufacturing excellence program. (b) The Consumer Packaging business recorded an additional charge of $22 million in conjunction with the closure of the Rolark manufacturing facility in Toronto, Canada, and a rationalization plan implemented in the second quarter of 2003. Closure costs for Rolark consisted of an $8 million charge to write down assets to their salvage value, $3 million of severance costs covering the termination of 178 employees and other exit costs of $1 million. The charge also included an additional provision for the previously implemented commercial business rationalization initiative. These charges included $8 million to write down assets to their salvage value and $2 million of severance costs covering the termination of 153 employees. (c) The Forest Products business approved plans in the fourth quarter of 2003 to shut down the Tuskalusa lumber mill in Moundville, Alabama. Operations at this mill had been temporarily ceased in the second quarter of 2003. Charges associated with this shutdown included $10 million of asset write downs to salvage value and $1 million of other exit costs. (d) The Distribution business (xpedx) recorded a charge of $3 million to cover lease termination costs related to the Nationwide San Francisco, California facility that was vacated in the fourth quarter of 2003. (e) During the fourth quarter of 2003, International Paper implemented the second phase of the previously announced Overhead Reduction Program to improve competitive performance. Charges associated with this initiative included $23 million of severance costs covering the termination of 557 employees. The $23 million charge included: Printing Papers $6 million; Industrial and Consumer Packaging $7 million; Forest Products $5 million; Specialty Businesses and Other $1 million; and Corporate $4 million. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 third quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Administrative Support Groups (a) $ $38 $38 Specialty Businesses and Other (b) 9 24 33 $9 $62 $71 (a) During the third quarter of 2003, International Paper implemented the initial phase of an Overhead Reduction Program to improve competitive performance. Charges associated with this initiative included $37 million of severance costs covering the termination of 744 employees and other cash costs of $1 million. The $38 million charge included: Printing Papers $12 million; Industrial and Consumer Packaging $11 million; Distribution $2 million; Forest Products $6 million; Specialty Businesses $2 million; and Corporate $5 million. (b) Specialty Businesses recorded an additional charge of $33 million in connection with the July 15, 2003 shutdown of the Natchez, Mississippi mill. The charge included $9 million of asset write downs to salvage value, $1 million of severance costs covering the termination of 20 employees, $20 million of environmental closure costs and other cash costs of $3 million. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 second quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Printing Papers (a) $3 $2 $5 Consumer Packaging (b) 6 6 Forest Products (c) 13 7 20 Distribution (d) 4 4 Specialty Businesses and Other (e) 16 16 $16 $35 $51 (a) The Printing Papers business recorded a charge of $2 million for severance costs relating to 19 employees associated with an 53 Table of Contents organizational restructuring initiative. The business also recorded an additional charge of $3 million to write off obsolete equipment. (b) The Consumer Packaging business implemented a rationalization plan at the Clifton and Englewood, New Jersey plants as a result of increased competition and slowing growth rates in key market segments. Management also approved a plan to exit leased space at the Montvale, New Jersey office in connection with the realignment of the Beverage Packaging and Foodservice businesses. Additionally, the Consumer Packaging business initiated an organizational restructuring program at several of its Bleached Board facilities. Charges associated with the programs included $2 million to cover the termination of 79 employees, lease termination costs of $3 million, and other cash costs of $1 million. (c) The Forest Products business approved plans to shut down the Springhill, Louisiana lumber facility and the Slaughter Industries Distribution Center in Portland, Oregon, and to temporarily cease operations at the Tuskalusa lumber mill in Moundville, Alabama. Charges associated with the shutdowns included $12 million of asset write downs to salvage value at Springhill and Slaughter, $5 million of severance costs covering the termination of 198 employees at all three facilities, and $1 million of other exit costs. Management also approved the closure of the Madison, New Hampshire lumber mill. Charges associated with this plan included $1 million to write down assets to their net realizable value and other cash costs of $1 million. (d) The Distribution business (xpedx) recorded a severance charge of $4 million covering the termination of 176 employees in a continuing effort to consolidate duplicative facilities and reduce ongoing operational expenses. (e) Specialty Businesses recorded a severance charge of $16 million associated with the termination of 447 employees in connection with the July 15th shutdown of the Natchez, Mississippi mill. The following table and discussion present details related to the 2003 first quarter charge: In millions AssetWrite downs SeveranceandOther Total Industrial Packaging (a) $ $2 $2 Specialty Businesses and Other (b) 2 18 20 $2 $20 $22 (a) The Industrial Packaging business implemented a plan to reorganize the Creil and Mortagne locations in France into a single complex. Charges associated with the reorganization included $1 million for severance costs covering the termination of 31 employees and other cash costs of $1 million. (b) Arizona Chemical recorded a charge of $1 million for severance costs of 51 employees associated with the Valkeakoski, Finland plant closure. Chemical Cellulose implemented a plan to shut down the Natchez, Mississippi dissolving pulp mill by mid 2003. Charges associated with this shutdown included a $1 million charge to write down assets to their salvage value and $12 million of severance costs covering the termination of 141 employees in April and other employees to be terminated upon closure. Additional shutdown charges for severance and closure costs were recorded in the second and third quarters of 2003. Additionally, Industrial Papers approved a plan to restructure converting operations at the Kaukauna, Wisconsin facility, modify its release products organization and implement division wide productivity improvement actions. Charges associated with these plans included $1 million to write down assets to their salvage value and $5 million of severance costs covering the termination of 130 employees. The following table presents a roll forward of the severance and other costs included in the 2003 restructuring plans: In millions SeveranceandOther Opening Balance (first quarter 2003) $20 Additions (second quarter 2003) 35 Additions (third quarter 2003) 62 Additions (fourth quarter 2003) 35 2003 Activity Cash charges (64 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (4 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required (3 ) 2004 Activity Cash charges (57 ) Reclassifications: Pension and postretirement curtailments and special termination benefits (9 ) Environmental (13 ) Reversals of reserves no longer required (2 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ The severance charges recorded in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2003 related to 2,966 employees. As of December 31, 2004, 2,955 employees had been terminated and 11 employees retained. NOTE 7 BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE AND DIVESTITURES DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS: In the third quarter of 2005, International Paper completed the sale of its 50.5% interest in CHH to Rank Group Investments Ltd. for approximately U.S. $1.14 billion to be used principally to reduce debt. The pre tax gain on the sale of $29 million ($361 million 54 Table of Contents after taxes and minority interest), including a $186 million pre tax credit from cumulative translation adjustments, was included in Discontinued operations, together with CHHs operating results prior to the sale. Additionally, in May 2004, CHH sold its Tissue business. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, International Paper has restated all prior periods to present the operating results of CHH as a discontinued operation. Revenues associated with the discontinued operation were $1.7 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.3 billion for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Earnings and earnings per share related to CHH were as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2005 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation Earnings (loss) from operation $(32 ) $35 $46 Income tax (expense) benefit (96 ) 33 42 Minority interest (expense) benefit, net of taxes 8 (41 ) (40 ) Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation, net of taxes (120 ) 27 48 Gain on sale of CHH 29 Gain on sale of CHH Tissue business 268 Income tax benefit (expense) 332 (69 ) Minority interest expense, net of taxes (109 ) Gain on sale, net of taxes and minority interest 361 90 Earnings from discontinued operation, net of taxes and minority interest $241 $117 $48 Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation assuming dilution Earnings (loss) from operation, net of taxes $(0.24 ) $0.06 $0.11 Gain on sale, net of taxes and minority interest 0.71 0.19 Earnings per common share from discontinued operation, net of taxes and minority interest assuming dilution $0.47 $0.25 $0.11 Assets and liabilities of CHH, included in International Papers consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004, as Assets and Liabilities of businesses held for sale, were as follows: In millions 2004 Cash and temporary investments $416 Accounts receivable, net 251 Inventories 347 Plants, properties and equipment, net 1,216 Forestlands 1,779 Other assets 491 Assets of business held for sale $4,500 Notes payable and current maturities of long term debt $284 Accounts payable 253 Accrued payroll and benefits 67 Other accrued liabilities 17 Long term debt 500 Other liabilities 602 Minority interest 1,360 Liabilities of business held for sale $3,083 In the third quarter of 2004, International Paper entered into an agreement to sell its Weldwood of Canada Limited (Weldwood) business to West Fraser Timber Co., Ltd. of Vancouver, Canada (West Fraser), for approximately C$1.26 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments at closing. Accordingly, a $323 million pre tax loss on impairment ($711 million after taxes), including $182 million of pre tax credits from cumulative translation adjustments, was recorded in Discontinued operations to write down the assets of Weldwood to their estimated net realizable value upon sale, including the related tax effect. The Company completed the sale of Weldwood in the fourth quarter for C$1.23 billion. International Papers net cash proceeds received from the sale were approximately U.S. $1.1 billion. All periods presented have been restated to present the operating results of Weldwood as a discontinued operation. Revenues associated with this discontinued operation were $1.0 billion and $791 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively. 55 Table of Contents Earnings and earnings per share related to Weldwood were as follows: In millions, except per share amounts 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation Earnings from operation $153 $15 Income tax expense (50 ) (6 ) Earnings from operation, net of taxes 103 9 Asset impairment (323 ) Income tax expense (a) (388 ) Asset impairment, net of taxes (711 ) Earnings (loss) from discontinued operation, net of taxes $(608 ) $9 Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation Earnings from operation, net of taxes $0.22 $0.02 Asset impairment, net of taxes (1.47 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from discontinued operation, net of taxes $(1.25 ) $0.02 (a) Reflects the low historic tax basis in Weldwood that was carried over in connection with the acquisition of Champion in June 2000. OTHER DIVESTITURES: 2005: In the fourth quarter of 2005, a pre tax charge of $46 million ($30 million after taxes) was recorded for adjustments of losses of businesses held for sale, principally $45 million to write down the carrying value of the Companys Polyrey business in France to its estimated net realizable value. In the second quarter of 2005, a net pre tax credit of $19 million ($12 million after taxes) was recorded, including a $25 million credit before taxes ($15 million after taxes) from the collection of a note receivable from the 2001 sale of the Flexible Packaging business and final charges related to the sale of Fine Papers and Industrial Papers. In addition, interest income of $11 million before taxes ($7 million after taxes) was collected on the Flexible Packaging business note, which is included in Interest expense, net. During the first quarter of 2005, International Paper had announced an agreement to sell its Fine Papers business to Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc. of Cohoes, New York. A $24 million pre tax loss ($13 million after taxes) was recorded in the first quarter to write down the net assets of the Fine Papers business to their estimated net realizable value. The sale of Fine Papers was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Also during the first quarter of 2005, International Paper announced that it had signed an agreement to sell its Industrial Papers business to an affiliate of Kohlberg and Company, LLC. A $49 million pre tax loss ($35 million after taxes) was recorded in the first quarter to write down the net assets of the Industrial Papers business and related corporate assets to their estimated net realizable value. The sale of Industrial Papers was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Also in 2005, pre tax charges totaling $11 million ($7 million after taxes) were recorded to adjust previously estimated gains/losses of businesses previously sold. The net 2005 pre tax losses totaling $111 million discussed above are included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 2004: In December 2004, International Paper committed to plans for the sale in 2005 of its Fine Papers business and its Maresquel mill and Papeteries de France distribution business in Europe. As a result, charges of $11 million before taxes ($8 million after taxes), $34 million before and after taxes, and $11 million before taxes ($12 million after taxes), respectively, were recorded to write down the assets of these entities to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. In October 2004, International Paper sold two box plants located in China to International Paper Pacific Millennium, resulting in a pre tax loss of $14 million ($4 million after taxes). In the third quarter of 2004, International Paper signed an agreement to sell Scaldia Papier B.V., and its subsidiary, Recom B.V. in the Netherlands, to Stora Enso for approximately $36 million in cash. This sale was completed in the third quarter and resulted in a loss of $34 million (no impact from taxes or minority interest). In addition, a $4 million loss (no impact from taxes or minority interest) was recorded to adjust the estimated loss on sale of Papeteries de Souche L.C. in France. This sale was completed in the second quarter of 2005 for approximately $14 million in proceeds. In the second quarter of 2004, a $27 million loss before and after taxes was recorded to write down the assets of Papeteries de Souche L.C. in France to their estimated realizable value. In addition, a $4 million loss before taxes ($2 million after taxes) was recorded to write down the assets of Food Pack S.A. in Chile to their estimated realizable value. The net 2004 pre tax losses totaling $139 million discussed above are included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 2003: In the fourth quarter of 2003, International Paper recorded a $34 million charge ($34 million after taxes) to write down the assets of its Polyrey business in France to their estimated fair value. This pre tax loss is included in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 56 Table of Contents TRANSFORMATION PLAN: On July 19, 2005, International Paper announced a plan to focus its business portfolio on two key global platform businesses: Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging. Subsequently, as discussed above, the Company completed the sale of CHH. Consistent with the previously announced plan, the Company continues to evaluate strategic options for specific businesses, including the possible sale or spin off of the businesses identified in the plan, and has distributed bid package information for many of these businesses. As this Transformation Plan is executed, it is expected that additional one time implementation charges will be incurred in future periods. NOTE 8 PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARIES: In March 2003, Southeast Timber, Inc. (Southeast Timber), a consolidated subsidiary of International Paper, issued $150 million of preferred securities to a private investor with future dividend payments based on LIBOR. Southeast Timber, which through a subsidiary initially held approximately 1.5 million acres of forestlands in the southern United States, is International Papers primary vehicle for ongoing future sales of southern forestlands. The preferred securities may be put back to International Paper by the private investor upon the occurrence of certain events, and have a liquidation preference that approximates their face amount. The $150 million preferred third party interest is included in Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Distributions paid to the third party investor were $10 million, $7 million and $5 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expense related to these preferred securities is shown in minority interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The agreement with the private investor also places certain limitations on International Papers ability to sell forestlands in the southern United States outside of Southeast Timber. In addition, because Southeast Timber is a separate legal entity, the assets of Southeast Timber and its subsidiaries, consisting principally of forestlands having a book value of approximately $215 million at December 31, 2005, will not be available to satisfy future liabilities and obligations of International Paper, although the value of International Papers interests in Southeast Timber and its subsidiaries will be available for these purposes. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES: International Paper holds variable interests in two financing entities that were used to monetize long term notes received from the sale of forestlands in 2002 and 2001. International Paper transferred notes and cash having a value of approximately $1.0 billion to these entities in exchange for preferred interests, and accounted for the transfers as a sale of the notes with no associated gain or loss. In the same period, the entities acquired approximately $1.0 billion of International Paper debt obligations for cash. International Paper has not consolidated the entities because it is not the primary beneficiary of the entities. At December 31, 2005, International Papers $540 million preferred interest in one of the entities has been offset against related debt obligations since International Paper has, and intends to effect, a legal right of offset to net settle these two amounts. NOTE 9 INCOME TAXES The components of International Papers earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest by taxing jurisdiction were: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Earnings (loss) U.S. $276 $271 $(249 ) Non U.S. 310 453 534 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $586 $724 $285 The provision (benefit) for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction was: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Current tax provision (benefit) U.S. federal $(301 ) $161 $173 U.S. state and local (52 ) 24 11 Non U.S. 106 135 96 $(247 ) $320 $280 Deferred tax provision (benefit) U.S. federal $(5 ) $(34 ) $(262 ) U.S. state and local (10 ) 5 (72 ) Non U.S. (23 ) (49 ) (2 ) $(38 ) $(78 ) $(336 ) Income tax provision (benefit) $(285 ) $242 $(56 ) The Companys net deferred income tax provision (benefit) includes a $3 million benefit, a $2 million benefit and a $1 million provision for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for the effect of changes in non U.S. and state tax rates. 57 Table of Contents International Paper made income tax payments, net of refunds, of $457 million, $254 million and $255 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A reconciliation of income tax expense using the statutory U.S. income tax rate compared with actual income tax expense (benefit) follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $586 $724 $285 Statutory U.S. income tax rate 35 % 35 % 35 % Tax expense using statutoryU.S. income tax rate 205 253 100 State and local income taxes (41 ) 19 (41 ) Tax rate and permanent differences on non U.S. earnings (25 ) (41 ) (105 ) Net U.S. tax on non U.S. dividends 169 44 26 Tax benefit on export sales (9 ) (7 ) (12 ) Non deductible business expenses 13 12 14 Permanent differences on sales of non strategic assets 11 Minority interest (9 ) (12 ) Retirement plan dividends (6 ) (7 ) (7 ) Tax credits (19 ) (37 ) (56 ) Tax audit settlements (560 ) Other, net (12 ) 15 26 Income tax expense (benefit) $(285 ) $242 $(56 ) Effective income tax rate 49 % 33 % 20 % The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: In millions 2005 2004 Deferred tax assets: Postretirement benefit accruals $339 $348 Prepaid pension costs 589 320 Alternative minimum and other tax credits 300 519 Net operating loss carryforwards 1,807 1,518 Compensation reserves 211 186 Legal reserves 40 98 Other 349 457 Gross deferred tax assets 3,635 3,446 Less: valuation allowance (139 ) (129 ) Net deferred tax assets $3,496 $3,317 Deferred tax liabilities: Plants, properties, and equipment $(2,599 ) $(2,731 ) Forestlands (753 ) (749 ) Other (298 ) (282 ) Total deferred tax liabilities $(3,650 ) $(3,762 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $(154 ) $(445 ) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet under the captions Deferred income tax assets, Deferred charges and other assets, Other accrued liabilities and Deferred income taxes. The decrease in 2005 in Deferred income taxes principally reflects the generation of U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the utilization of income tax credits and an increase in deferred tax assets relating to pension costs. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of January 1, 2005, was $129 million. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2005, was an increase of $10 million. The 2005 income tax provision included a net $446 million reduction, including a $627 million reduction resulting from an agreement reached with the U.S. federal taxing authorities concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a $142 million charge for deferred taxes related to earnings repatriated under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and $39 million of other tax charges. During 2004, International Paper recorded a $32 million increase in the provision for income taxes reflecting an adjustment of deferred tax balances. During 2003, decreases totaling $110 million in the provision for income taxes were recorded for significant tax items, including a $60 million reduction for a favorable revision of estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2002 federal income tax return and increased research and development credits, and a $50 million reduction reflecting a favorable tax audit settlement and benefits from an overseas tax program. International Paper has federal and non U.S. net operating loss carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $147 million, 2016 through 2025 $3.4 billion, and indefinite carryforwards of $700 million. International Paper has tax benefits from net operating loss carryforwards for state taxing jurisdictions of approximately $397 million that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $102 million and 2016 through 2025 $295 million. International Paper also has federal, non U.S. and state tax credit carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $66 million, 2016 through 2025 $116 million, and indefinite carryforwards $182 million. Further, International Paper has state capital loss carryforwards that expire as follows: 2006 through 2015 $40 million and 2016 through 2025 $1 million. Deferred income taxes are not provided for temporary differences of approximately $2.4 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing earnings of non U.S. subsidiaries intended to be permanently reinvested. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings and other basis differences is not practicable. 58 Table of Contents International Paper is currently being audited by various federal, state and non U.S. taxing authorities for tax periods from 1994 through 2004. While the Company believes that it is adequately accrued for possible audit adjustments, the final resolution of these examinations cannot be determined at this time and could result in final settlements that differ from current estimates. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act provides for a special one time deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. International Paper applied this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in 2005 totaling $2.1 billion and recorded a deferred tax charge of $142 million related to these repatriations. NOTE 10 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Certain property, machinery and equipment are leased under cancelable and non cancelable agreements. At December 31, 2005, total future minimum rental commitments under non cancelable leases were $712 million, due as follows: 2006 $172 million; 2007 $144 million; 2008 $119 million; 2009 $76 million; 2010 $63 million; and thereafter $138 million. Rent expense was $216 million, $225 million and $236 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Unconditional purchase obligations have been entered into in the ordinary course of business for the purchase of certain pulpwood, logs, wood chips, raw materials, energy and services. At December 31, 2005, total future minimum purchase obligations were $5.6 billion due as follows: 2006 $3.3 billion; 2007 $393 million; 2008 $280 million; 2009 $240 million; 2010 $204 million; and thereafter $1.2 billion. International Paper entered into an agreement in 2000 to guarantee, for a fee, an unsecured contractual credit agreement between a financial institution and an unrelated third party customer. The guarantee, which expires in 2008, was made in exchange for a ten year contract as the exclusive paper supplier to the customer. Both the loan from the financial institution to the customer and the Companys guarantee are unsecured. Under the terms of the guarantee, International Paper could be required to make future payments up to a maximum of $110 million if the customer were to default under the credit agreement. There is no liability recorded on International Papers books for the guarantee. It is possible that payments may be required under this guarantee arrangement in the future, although it is uncertain how much or when such payments, if any, might be required. In connection with sales of businesses, property, equipment, forestlands and other assets, International Paper commonly makes representations and warranties relating to such businesses or assets, and may enter into indemnification arrangements with respect to tax and environmental liabilities, breaches of representations and warranties, and other matters. Where any liabilities for such matters are probable and subject to reasonable estimation, accrued liabilities are recorded at the time of sale as a cost of the transaction. International Paper believes that possible future unrecorded liabilities for these matters, if any, would not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. EXTERIOR SIDING AND ROOFING SETTLEMENTS Three nationwide class action lawsuits against the Company and Masonite Corp., a formerly wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, relating to exterior siding and roofing products manufactured by Masonite were settled in 1998 and 1999. Masonite was sold to Premdor Inc. in 2001. The liability for these settlements, as well as the corresponding insurance recoveries (each as further described below), were retained by the Company. The first suit, entitled Judy Naef v. Masonite and International Paper, was filed in December 1994 and settled on January 15, 1998 (the Hardboard Settlement). The plaintiffs alleged that hardboard siding manufactured by Masonite failed prematurely, allowing moisture intrusion that in turn caused damage to the structure underneath the siding. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners having Masonite hardboard siding installed on and incorporated into buildings between January 1, 1980, and January 15, 1998. For siding that was installed between January 1, 1980, and December 31, 1989, the deadline for filing claims expired January 18, 2005, and for siding installed between January 1, 1990, through January 15, 1998, claims must be made by January 15, 2008. The second suit, entitled Cosby, et al. v. Masonite Corporation, et al., was filed in 1997 and settled on January 6, 1999 (the Omniwood Settlement). The plaintiffs made allegations with regard to Omniwood siding manufactured by Masonite that were similar to those alleged with respect to hardboard siding. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners having Omniwood siding installed on and incorporated into buildings from January 1, 1992, to January 6, 1999. Claims relating to Omniwood siding must be made by January 6, 2009. The third suit, entitled Smith, et al v. Masonite Corporation, et al., was filed in 1995 and settled on January 6, 1999 (the Woodruf Settlement). The plaintiffs alleged that Woodruf roofing manufactured by Masonite was defective and caused damage to the structure underneath the roofing. The class consisted of all U.S. property owners who had incorporated and installed Woodruf roofing from January 1, 1980, to January 6, 1999. For roofing that was installed between January 1, 59 Table of Contents 1980, and December 31, 1989, the deadline for filing claims expired January 6, 2006, and for roofing installed between January 1, 1990, and January 6, 1999, claims must be made by January 6, 2009. All of the settlements provide for monetary compensation to class members meeting the settlement requirements on a claims made basis, which requires a class member to individually submit proof of damage to, or caused by, Masonite product, proof of square footage involved and proofs of various other matters. All of the settlements also provide for payment of attorneys fees equaling 15% (in the case of the Hardboard Settlement) and 13% (in the case of the Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements) of the settlement amounts paid to class members. CLAIMS FILING AND EVALUATION For all of the settlements, once a claim is determined to be valid, the amount of the claim is determined by reference to a negotiated compensation formula designed to compensate the homeowner for product damage to the structure. The compensation formula is based on (1) the average cost per square foot for product replacement, including material and labor as calculated by industry standards, in the area in which the structure is located, adjusted for inflation, or (2) the cost of appropriate refinishing as determined by industry standards in such area. Pursuant to the settlement agreements, these costs are determined by reference to Means Price Data, as published by R.S. Means Company, and updated annually for inflation. Persons receiving compensation pursuant to this formula also agree to release the Company and Masonite from all other property damage claims relating to the product in question. In connection with the products involved in the settlements described above, where there is damage, the process of degradation, once begun, continues until repairs are made. The Company estimates that approximately four million structures have installed products that are the subject of the Hardboard Settlement, 300,000 structures have installed products that are the subject of the Omniwood Settlement and 86,000 structures have installed products that are the subject of the Woodruf Settlement. Masonite stopped selling the products involved in the Hardboard Settlement in May 2001, the products involved in the Woodruf Settlement in May 1996 and the products involved in the Omniwood Settlement in September 1996. Persons who are class members under the settlements who do not pursue remedies may have recourse to warranties, if any, in existence at the expiration of the respective terms established under the settlement agreements for making claims. The warranty period generally extends for 25 years following the installation of the product in question and, although the warranties vary from product to product, they generally provide for a payment of up to two times the purchase price. CLAIMS PAYMENT DATA Through December 31, 2005, net settlement payments totaled approximately $1.0 billion ($831 million for the Hardboard Settlement, $128 million for the Omniwood Settlement and $52 million for the Woodruf Settlement), including $51 million of non refundable attorneys advances. The average settlement cost per claim for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 for the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements are set forth in the table below: AVERAGE SETTLEMENT COST PER CLAIM Hardboard Omniwood Woodruf In thousands SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family December 31, 2005 $2.5 $2.2 $4.6 $6.1 $4.3 $0.5 December 31, 2004 2.3 3.1 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.0 December 31, 2003 2.2 3.0 3.8 5.4 3.9 1.2 The above information is calculated by dividing the aggregate amount of claims paid during the specified period by the number of claims paid during such period. 60 Table of Contents The following table shows an analysis of claims activity related to the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: CLAIMS ACTIVITY In thousands Hardboard Omniwood Woodruf Total SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family SingleFamily Multi Family Total December 31, 2002 28.6 4.0 1.9 0.4 1.1 0.3 31.6 4.7 36.3 No. of Claims Filed 45.0 9.2 4.9 0.3 1.0 50.9 9.5 60.4 No. of Claims Paid (30.9 ) (7.1 ) (4.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.9 ) (35.9 ) (7.3 ) (43.2 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (16.3 ) (3.3 ) (0.9 ) (0.4 ) (17.6 ) (3.3 ) (20.9 ) December 31, 2003 26.4 2.8 1.8 0.5 0.8 0.3 29.0 3.6 32.6 No. of Claims Filed 56.0 8.0 5.2 0.6 61.8 8.0 69.8 No. of Claims Paid (28.6 ) (3.7 ) (4.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.4 ) (33.0 ) (3.8 ) (36.8 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (14.9 ) (2.1 ) (0.6 ) (0.1 ) (15.6 ) (2.1 ) (17.7 ) December 31, 2004 38.9 5.0 2.4 0.4 0.9 0.3 42.2 5.7 47.9 No. of Claims Filed 27.3 5.6 4.6 0.4 0.6 32.5 6.0 38.5 No. of Claims Paid (30.7 ) (5.3 ) (4.1 ) (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (35.3 ) (5.6 ) (40.9 ) No. of Claims Dismissed (15.3 ) (2.1 ) (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (16.0 ) (2.1 ) (18.1 ) December 31, 2005 20.2 3.2 2.4 0.5 0.8 0.3 23.4 4.0 27.4 At December 31, 2005, there were $18 million of payments due for claims that have been determined to be valid ($12 million for Hardboard, $5 million for Omniwood and $1 million for Woodruf) and an estimated $14 million of payments associated with claims currently under evaluation ($9 million for claims related to the Hardboard Settlement, $3 million for claims related to the Omniwood Settlement and $2 million for claims related to the Woodruf Settlement). In addition, there was approximately $9 million of costs associated with administrative and legal fees incurred but not paid prior to year end. RESERVE FOR SIDING AND ROOFING SETTLEMENTS At December 31, 2005, net reserves for the settlements discussed above totaled $113 million, of which $34 million is attributable to the Hardboard Settlement, $74 million to the Omniwood Settlement and $5 million to the Woodruf Settlement. The following table presents an analysis of the net reserve activity related to the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: In millions Hard board Omni wood Woodruf Total Balance, December 31, 2002 $357 $138 $12 $507 Payments (129 ) (21 ) (3 ) (153 ) Insurance collections 33 33 Balance, December 31, 2003 261 117 9 387 Payments (111 ) (20 ) (5 ) (136 ) Insurance collections 8 8 Balance, December 31, 2004 158 97 4 259 Payments (119 ) (23 ) (4 ) (146 ) Reclassification (5 ) 5 Balance, December 31, 2005 $34 $74 $5 $113 While, for tracking purposes, the Company maintains three reserve accounts for each of the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements, we evaluate the adequacy of the aggregate reserve due to their similar and related nature. In making a determination as to adequacy of the aggregate reserve, we employ a third party consultant to conduct statistical studies of future costs utilizing recent claims experience data. In 2002, projections were prepared of the anticipated claims activity and payments through the end of the claims period for each of the settlements. These projections are updated annually using recent claims activity and other factors typically considered in projecting future claims 61 Table of Contents and costs. If the projections were to indicate that aggregate payments though the end of the claims period would be materially over or under the aggregate forecasted payments, the aggregate reserve would be appropriately adjusted. Since 2002, our actual claims experience has been in line with projected forecasts and therefore there have been no adjustments of the aggregate reserve balance for these settlements. A number of factors could cause actual results to vary from our projections, including a higher than projected cost per claim (due to higher construction, wood, energy and replacement costs, all of which affect the inflation factor for the Means Price Data discussed above), and increased claims from geographic locations where previously there had been few or no claims. In January 2005, the Company received over 21,000 Hardboard claims (compared to 8,000 claims received in December 2004, and 3,000 claims received in January 2004). This significant increase in claim volume coincided with the January 18, 2005 deadline for filing claims in the Hardboard Settlement for siding installed in the 1980s. Claims are processed by the Independent Claims Administrator and only those claims which meet the requirements of the Hardboard Settlement are paid. Following the January deadline, the Independent Claims Administrator could not immediately determine how many of the 21,000 claims would meet the requirements for payment as set forth in the Hardboard Settlement. In addition to this significant volume increase, the Company experienced a higher average cost per claim due, in part, to a 2005 increase in the Means Price Data compared to prior years. At the end of the third quarter, the Companys third party consultant advised the Company that payments relating to 1980s Hardboard siding would be largely concluded by the end of the third quarter 2005. Payments through the end of the third quarter totaled $99 million, which were approximately $30 million more than projected for the year. However, during the fourth quarter, the number of valid 1980s Hardboard claims and approved payments exceeded the third party consultants projection by $12 million. As a result of these unforeseen factors, the Company made aggregate payments of $118 million in 2005 for Hardboard Settlement claims. Despite the higher than anticipated number of valid 1980s Hardboard claims and the slightly higher cost per claim, the Company believes that, as of the end of 2005, the aggregate reserve balance for the Hardboard, Omniwood and Woodruf Settlements is adequate. However, if new claims filed for products involved in these settlements, or the average cost per claim, were to be higher than projected in 2006, the Company might increase its aggregate reserve to cover claims for these settlements. The amount of an increase, if any, could range from zero to $20 million and would depend on a number of factors, including the likelihood that, and the extent to which, our 2005 experience is indicative of future activity. The Company will continue to evaluate the relevant data through the end of the claims period in order to determine if an increase in its aggregate reserve will be warranted. HARDBOARD INSURANCE MATTERS The Company commenced a number of lawsuits and arbitration proceedings against various insurance carriers relating to their refusal to indemnify and or defend the Company and Masonite for, among other things, the Hardboard Settlement. These matters (with the exception of one arbitration proceeding further discussed below) have been favorably resolved resulting in the execution of settlement agreements that require the insurance carriers to pay the Company an aggregate of approximately $625 million. Of this amount, approximately $603 million in insurance settlements were reached with carriers through December 31, 2005. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Insurance settlements $ 334 $ 174 $ 33 Income recognized 258 123 Cash settlements received, net 114 96 33 Including collections received prior to 2003, cumulative net cash settlements received totaled $304 million through December 31, 2005. Approximately $230 million of additional cash will be collected in 2006 through 2008 under current settlement agreements. The Company also entered into a settlement in the first quarter of 2006 for approximately $22 million. The only remaining proceeding to recover insurance is an arbitration that the Company commenced against ACE Insurance Company, Ltd. That proceeding is scheduled for June 2006 in London. In 2004, the Company settled a dispute with a third party relating to an alternative risk transfer agreement. Under that agreement, the Company received $100 million for certain costs relating to the Hardboard Settlement and other hardboard siding cases. As part of the settlement, the Company agreed to pay the third party a portion of certain insurance recoveries received by the Company after January 1, 2004, up to a maximum of $95 million. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $48 million had been paid to the third party under this settlement. ANTITRUST MATTERS On May 14, 1999, and May 18, 1999, two lawsuits were filed in federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Company, the former Union Camp Corporation (acquired by the Company in 1999), and other manufacturers of linerboard (the Defendants). These suits alleged that the Defendants conspired to fix prices for corrugated sheets and containers during the 62 Table of Contents period from October 1, 1993, through November 30, 1995. These lawsuits, which sought injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation, were consolidated and, on September 4, 2001, certified as a class action. On September 22, 2003, the Company, along with Weyerhaeuser Co. and Georgia Pacific Corp., agreed with the class plaintiffs to settle the litigation for an aggregate amount of $68 million. The settlement, of which the Companys and Union Camps share totaled $24.4 million, was approved by the court in an order dismissing the cases on December 10, 2003. While court approval of the class action settlements was pending in 2003, 12 new complaints each with multiple plaintiffs who opted out of the class action, described above, were filed in various federal district courts around the country. These suits alleged that the defendants conspired to fix prices for corrugated sheets and containers during the period from October 1, 1993, through February 28, 1997. One opt out plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its complaint on October 10, 2003. In 2005, the Company settled all of the claims of the remaining opt out plaintiffs, except for one claimant who had purchased a small amount of corrugated containers from the Company, for payments which aggregated $27.5 million. As a consequence of those settlements, all but one of the lawsuits have been dismissed. The amount involved in the one remaining lawsuit is de minimus. In 2004, the Company settled a number of purported federal and state class actions alleging price fixing relating to high pressure laminates by its former Nevamar business (which was part of the Companys Decorative Products division) for a total of $38.5 million. The federal settlement has been approved by the court, and the Company has been dismissed from the case. The state settlements have all received approval as well, and the judgments dismissing the Company from the cases are final in all but one state (Tennessee) in which four settlement class members have appealed the trial courts rejection of their objection to the settlement. The amount involved in the Tennessee matter is de minimus. On September 16, 2002, the Company was served in Federal District Court in Columbia, South Carolina with a class action lawsuit by a group of private landowners alleging that the Company and certain of its fiber suppliers, known as Quality Suppliers, engaged in an unlawful conspiracy to artificially depress the prices at which the Company procures fibers for its mills. The suit seeks injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation. On March 31, 2004, the case was certified as a class action. Discovery and issues concerning class notice are ongoing. The Company believes it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending this case. A number of private plaintiffs filed purported class actions on behalf of purchasers of coated publication papers in various U.S. federal and state courts. These class actions, based on investigations of possible cartel activity relating to coated publication papers that were commenced in 2004 by European, U.S. and Canadian antitrust authorities, allege that manufacturers of coated publication papers, including the Company, participated in a price fixing conspiracy from 1993 to the present. The cases filed in federal court asserted a violation of the federal antitrust laws, while the cases filed in the state court alleged violations of state antitrust and consumer protection statutes. These lawsuits seek injunctive relief as well as treble damages and other costs associated with the litigation. The federal cases were consolidated for pre trial purposes in December 2004 in the federal court for the District of Connecticut. The state cases in all states except California were removed to federal court and transferred to the District of Connecticut, and on November 15, 2005, a consolidated indirect purchaser class action complaint was filed in the District of Connecticut on behalf of indirect purchasers in all states except California. While discovery is in the earliest stages, the Company believes it is not a proper party defendant to this litigation and intends to vigorously defend its position. PATENT MATTER In connection with its former Nevamar business, the Company retained liability for a patent dispute pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The case was commenced in 1988 as a declaratory judgment action by Nevamar for non infringement and invalidity of a static dissipative laminate patent held by Charleswater Products, Inc. (Charleswater). Charleswater counterclaimed, asserting that certain Nevamar products infringed its patent and seeking damages of approximately $24 million for lost profits and royalty payments (which could be trebled if Nevamar were found to have willfully infringed the patent), plus substantial pre judgment interest as Charleswaters claims have existed since 1986. Because the Nevamar business is no longer owned by the Company, the outcome of the case would have no impact on the Companys business except to the extent of monetary damages. The proceedings have been protracted by an extended preliminary injunction hearing; a summary judgment ruling in favor of Nevamar which was then reversed after an appeal; a claim construction proceeding; extensive fact and expert discovery; and a further summary judgment motion that is pending. Trial for this 63 Table of Contents matter is scheduled to commence on March 13, 2006. The Company believes that it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending this case. SUMMARY The Company is also involved in various other inquiries, administrative proceedings and litigation relating to contracts, sales of property, environmental protection, tax, antitrust, personal injury and other matters, some of which allege substantial monetary damages. While any proceeding or litigation has the element of uncertainty, the Company believes that the outcome of any of the lawsuits or claims that are pending or threatened (other than those that cannot be assessed due to their preliminary nature), or all of them combined, including the preceding antitrust matters, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements. NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION Inventories by major category were: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 Raw materials $404 $321 Finished pulp, paper and packaging products 1,611 1,650 Finished lumber and panel products 33 38 Operating supplies 317 298 Other 69 64 Inventories $2,434 $2,371 The last in, first out inventory method is used to value most of International Papers U.S. inventories. Approximately 70% of total raw materials and finished products inventories were valued using this method. If the first in, first out method had been used, it would have increased total inventory balances by approximately $239 million and $170 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Plants, properties and equipment by major classification were: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 Pulp, paper and packaging facilities Mills $19,865 $20,895 Packaging plants 5,685 5,633 Wood products facilities 978 974 Other plants, properties and equipment 1,886 1,824 Gross cost 28,414 29,326 Less: Accumulated depreciation 16,613 17,110 Plants, properties and equipment, net $11,801 $12,216 Interest costs related to the development of certain long term assets are capitalized and amortized over the related assets estimated useful lives. Capitalized net interest costs were $14 million in 2005, $10 million in 2004 and $8 million in 2003. Interest payments made during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $822 million, $774 million and $806 million, respectively. The 2005 interest payments include a $52 million payment to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service related to the settlement of the 1997 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits. Total interest expense was $683 million in 2005, net of a $46 million credit related to the settlement of the tax audits discussed above, $782 million in 2004 and $804 million in 2003. Interest income was $90 million, $73 million and $100 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following tables present changes in the goodwill balances as allocated to each business segment for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In millions BalanceJanuary 1,2005 Other(a) Additions /Reductions BalanceDecember 31,2005 Printing Papers $2,876 $3 $ $2,879 Industrial Packaging 591 18 67 (b ) 676 Consumer Packaging 1,014 (28 ) 1 (c ) 987 Distribution 299 299 Forest Products 190 1 191 Corporate 24 (13 ) (d ) 11 Total $4,994 $(6 ) $55 $5,043 (a) Includes reclassifications and the effects of foreign currency translations (b) Includes the effects of the completion of the accounting for the acquisition of Box USA ($23 million), the acquisition of Compagnie Marocaine des Cartons et des Papiers ($12 million) and the acquisition of a 50% interest in International Paper Distribution Limited ($38 million), offset by the effects of the sale of the Industrial Papers business ($6 million) (c) Includes the effects of the acquisitions of a 20% minority interest in Shorewood EPC Europe Ltd. ($5 million), and a 20% minority interest in IP Korea ($1 million), offset by the reclassification of IP Pty Australia Ltd. to equity method investments ($5 million) (d) Includes the effects of the sale of the Fine Papers business 64 Table of Contents In millions Balance January 1, 2004 Other(b) Additions/ Reductions Balance December 31, 2004 Printing Papers $2,878 $1 $(3 )(c) $2,876 Industrial Packaging 345 8 238(d ) 591 Consumer Packaging 1,016 1 (3 )(e) 1,014 Distribution 334 1 (36 )(f) 299 Forest Products 190(a ) 190 Corporate 30 (6 ) 24 Total $4,793 $5 $196 $4,994 (a) Restated for the reclassification of Weldwood to Discontinued operations (b) Represents the effects of foreign currency translations and reclassifications from other long term assets (c) Represents the reclassification of the goodwill of Fine Papers to Assets of businesses held for sale (d) Includes the effects of the acquisition of Box USA ($238 million) offset by the sale of Food Pack S.A. ($3 million) (e) Includes the effects of the sale of Food Pack S.A. (f) Represents the effects of the sale of Scaldia Papier B.V. ($23 million) and the reclassification of the goodwill of Papeteries de France to Assets of businesses held for sale ($12 million) The following table presents an analysis of activity related to asset retirement obligations since January 1, 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Asset retirement obligation at January 1 $41 $48 New liabilities 12 6 Liabilities settled (6 ) (8 ) Net adjustments to existing liabilities (2 ) (6 ) Accretion expense 2 1 Asset retirement obligation at December 31 $47 $41 This liability is included in Other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The following table presents changes in minority interest balances for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Balance, beginning of year $188 $528 Reclassification of limited partnership interests to debt (338 ) Interest of CHH in an IP consolidated subsidiary 17 Dividends paid (11 ) (25 ) Minority interest expense 12 26 Other, net 5 (3 ) Balance, end of year $211 $188 In December 2004, International Paper completed the sale of 1.1 million acres of forestlands in Maine and New Hampshire to a private forest investment company for $244 million. Since International Paper has some continuing interest in these forestlands through a long term fiber supply agreement, no gain was recognized in 2004 on this transaction. However, the net cash proceeds from the transaction of approximately $242 million are included as a source of cash in the accompanying consolidated statement of cash flows. The deferred gain on the transaction totaling $112 million and $114 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, included in Other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, is being amortized to earnings in future periods over the term of the fiber supply agreement. NOTE 12 DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT In November and December of 2005, International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Paper, issued $700 million of long term debt with an initial interest rate of LIBOR plus 40 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in November 2010. Additionally, the subsidiary borrowed $70 million under a bank credit agreement with an initial interest rate of LIBOR plus 40 basis points that can vary depending on the credit rating of the Company, and with a maturity date in November 2006. In December 2005, International Paper used a portion of the proceeds from the above borrowings, and from the sale of CHH in the third quarter of 2005, to repay approximately $190 million of notes with coupon rates ranging from 3.8% to 10% and original maturities from 2008 to 2029. The remaining proceeds from the borrowings and CHH sale will be used for other debt reductions in the first quarter of 2006. In September 2005, International Paper used a portion of the proceeds from the CHH sale to repay the remaining $250 million portion of a subsidiarys $650 million long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points and a maturity date of June 2007, and $312 million of commercial paper that had been issued in the same quarter. Other reductions in the third quarter included $662 million of notes with coupon rates ranging from 4% to 7.35% and original maturities from 2009 to 2029, and the repayment of $150 million of 7.10% notes with a maturity date of September 2005. In June 2005, International Paper repaid approximately $400 million of a subsidiarys long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points and a maturity date of June 2007. 65 Table of Contents In February 2005, International Paper redeemed the outstanding $464 million aggregate principal amount of International Paper Capital Trust 5.25% convertible subordinated debentures originally due in July 2025 at 100.5% of par plus accrued interest. Other reductions in the first quarter of 2005 included early payment of approximately $295 million of principal on notes with coupon rates ranging from 4% to 7.875% and original maturities from 2006 to 2015. Pre tax early debt retirement expense of $57 million related to the above 2005 redemptions is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. In December 2004, Timberlands Capital Corp. II, Inc., a former wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of International Paper, redeemed $170 million of 4.5% preferred securities. In November 2004, these preferred securities were reclassified from Minority interest to Current maturities of long term debt, pursuant to SFAS No. 150. Additionally during the fourth quarter of 2004, International Paper redeemed approximately $295 million of mostly domestic debt, including $108 million of 9.77% notes with a maturity date in December 2009 and $88 million of 6.9% industrial development bonds with a maturity date in August 2022. In August 2004, an International Paper wholly owned subsidiary issued 500 million euro denominated long term debt (equivalent to approximately $619 million at issuance) with an initial interest rate of EURIBOR plus 55 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in August 2009. Also in August 2004, International Paper repurchased $168 million of limited partnership interests in Georgetown Equipment Leasing Associates, L.P. and Trout Creek Equipment Leasing, L.P. In June 2004, these partnership interests had been reclassified from Minority interest to Current maturities of long term debt pursuant to SFAS No. 150. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2004, approximately $500 million of debt was redeemed, including $150 million of 8.125% notes with a maturity date in June 2024 and $193 million of debt assumed in connection with the Box USA acquisition. In June 2004, an International Paper wholly owned subsidiary issued $650 million of long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 62.5 basis points that can vary depending upon the credit rating of the Company and a maturity date in June 2007, which refinanced $650 million of long term debt with an interest rate of LIBOR plus 100 basis points and a maturity date in August 2004. In March 2004, International Paper issued $600 million of 4.00% notes due April 2010 and $400 million of 5.25% notes due April 2016. The proceeds from these issuances were used in April 2004 to retire approximately $1.0 billion of 8.125% coupon rate debt with an original maturity date in July 2005. In January 2004, approximately $1.0 billion of debt with an 8.05% blended coupon rate was retired using $1.0 billion of proceeds from 4.875% coupon rate debt issued in December 2003. A pre tax early debt retirement expense of $92 million related to the above 2004 redemptions is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. A summary of long term debt follows: In millions at December 31 2005 2004 8 7/8% to 10% notes due 2011 2012 $136 $175 9.25% debentures due 2011 125 125 7% to 7 7/8% notes due 2006 2007 437 649 6 7/8% notes due 2023 2029 351 394 6.75% notes due 2011 819 1,000 6.65% notes due 2037 98 97 6.4% notes to 6.5% notes due 2006 2007 344 149 6.4% to 7.75% debentures due 2025 2027 571 797 5.85% notes due 2012 969 1,202 5 1/4% convertible subordinated debentures 464 5.25% to 5.5% notes due 2014 2016 1,296 1,596 5 3/8% euro notes due 2006 296 334 5 1/8% debentures due 2012 106 102 3.8% to 4.25% notes due 2008 2010 1,152 1,399 Zero coupon convertible debentures due 2021 1,185 1,141 Medium term notes due 2006 2009 (a) 43 43 Floating rate notes due 2006 2010 (b) 1,764 1,794 Environmental and industrial development bonds due 2006 2033 (c,d) 2,005 2,150 Commercial paper and bank notes (e) 417 65 Other (f) 90 178 Total (g) 12,204 13,854 Less: Current maturities 1,181 222 Long term debt $11,023 $13,632 (a) The weighted average interest rate on these notes was 8.1% in 2005 and 2004. (b) The weighted average interest rate on these notes was 4.2% in 2005 and 2.9% in 2004. (c) The weighted average interest rate on these bonds was 5.5% in 2005 and 5.6% in 2004. (d) Includes $22 million of bonds at December 31, 2004, which could be tendered at various dates and or under certain circumstances. These bonds were redeemed in 2005. (e) The weighted average interest rate was 4.9% in 2005 and 4.6% in 2004. Includes $283 million of non U.S. denominated borrowings with a weighted average interest rate of 4.8% in 2005. 66 Table of Contents (f) Includes $6 million at December 31, 2005, and $54 million at December 31, 2004, related to interest rate swaps treated as fair value hedges (see Note 13). (g) The fair market value was approximately $12.3 billion at December 31, 2005, and $14.4 billion at December 31, 2004. Total maturities of long term debt over the next five years are 2006 $1.2 billion; 2007 $570 million; 2008 $308 million; 2009 $2.3 billion; and 2010 $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, International Paper classified $1.25 billion and $87 million, respectively, of tenderable bonds, contingently convertible securities, commercial paper and bank notes, and Current maturities of long term debt as Long term debt. International Paper has the intent and ability to renew or convert these obligations, as evidenced by the available bank credit agreements described below. At December 31, 2005, International Papers unused contractually committed bank credit agreements amounted to $3.2 billion. The agreements generally provide for interest rates at a floating rate index plus a pre determined margin dependent upon International Papers credit rating. The agreements include a $750 million fully committed bank credit agreement that expires in March 2006 and a $1.25 billion fully committed bank credit agreement that expires in March 2009. These agreements have a facility fee of 0.15% that is payable quarterly. These agreements also include up to $1.2 billion of available commercial paper based financings under a receivables securitization program that expires in November 2007 with a facility fee of 0.20%. At December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding borrowings under these agreements. The Company is currently in the process of refinancing the $750 million bank credit agreement maturing in March 2006 and the $1.25 billion bank credit agreement maturing in March 2009. Additionally, International Paper Kwidzyn S.A., a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of International Paper, has a PLN 400 million (approximately $123 million) bank credit agreement maturing in May 2006, with no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2005, and International Paper Investments (Luxembourg) S.ar.l., a wholly owned subsidiary of International Paper, has a $100 million bank credit agreement maturing in November 2006, with $70 million in borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, outstanding debt included approximately $417 million of commercial paper and bank notes with interest rates that fluctuate based on market conditions and the Companys credit rating. Maintaining a strong investment grade rating is an important element of International Papers corporate finance strategy. At December 31, 2005, the Company held long term credit ratings of BBB (negative outlook) and Baa3 (stable outlook) by Standard & Poors (S&P) and Moodys Investor Services (Moodys), respectively. The Company currently has short term credit ratings by S&P and Moodys of A 3 and P 3, respectively. Contingently Convertible Securities Included in debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $2.1 billion principal amount at maturity of zero coupon convertible senior debentures with a 20 year term. This debt accretes to face value at maturity at a rate of 3.75% per annum. Beginning on June 20, 2004, and every June 20th until maturity, the debentures are subject to an increased accretion rate if the closing sales price of the Companys common stock is equal to or less than 60% of the then current conversion price of the notes for any 20 trading days out of the last 30 consecutive trading days ending six business days prior to June 20, 2004, or later annual date. The conversion price of the notes was $59.11 as of December 31, 2005. At June 20, 2005, the bonds were subject to an increased accretion rate; however, the adjusted rate remained at 3.75% per the terms of the agreement. These debentures may be converted into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion ratio of 9.5111 shares per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of debentures, which was equal to an initial conversion price of $50.01 per share of the Companys common stock. The debenture holders may convert their debentures into the Companys common stock prior to maturity under any of the following circumstances: (1) the closing sales price of the Companys common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the day prior to the surrender date is more than 120% (declining by .256% at the end of each semi annual period over the life of the debentures to 110%) of the then current conversion price; (2) International Papers credit rating is downgraded by each of Moodys and S&P to below Baa3 and BBB , respectively; (3) the Company has called the notes for redemption; (4) the Company distributes to all holders of the Companys common stock certain rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days, common stock at less than the closing sales price of the Companys common stock at the time; or (5) the Company distributes to all holders of its common stock, the assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase the Companys debt securities, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 12.5% of the closing sales price of the Companys common stock on the day preceding the declaration for such distribution. Security holders have the right to require repurchase of these securities on June 20th in each of the years 2006, 2011 and 2016, at a repurchase price equal to the accreted principal amount to the repurchase date. 67 Table of Contents The repurchase may be for International Paper common stock or cash, or a combination of both, at the Companys option. International Paper also has the option to redeem the securities for cash after June 19, 2006. On or after June 20, 2006, and prior to June 20, 2008, the redemption may only occur if the closing sales price of the Companys common stock exceeds 120% of the then current conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the date redemption notice is given. On or after June 20, 2008, the redemption price will be equal to the then accreted principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid cash interest to the redemption date. NOTE 13 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES International Paper periodically uses derivatives and other financial instruments to hedge exposures to interest rate, commodity and currency risks. For hedges that meet the criteria under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, International Paper, at inception, formally designates and documents the instrument as a hedge of a specific underlying exposure, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. Because of the high degree of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure being hedged, fluctuations in the value of the derivative instruments are generally offset by changes in the value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. Derivatives are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, determined using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies, in Other current or noncurrent assets or liabilities. The earnings impact resulting from the change in fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as the underlying exposure being hedged. The financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are assessed both at inception and quarterly thereafter to ensure they are effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposures. The ineffective portion of a financial instruments change in fair value, if any, would be recognized currently in earnings together with the changes in fair value of any derivatives not designated as hedges. INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate swaps may be used to manage interest rate risks associated with International Papers debt. Some of these instruments qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, and others do not. Interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount at December 31, 2005, of approximately $500 million and maturities ranging from one to 18 years do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the change in fair value of these swaps was immaterial. The fair value of the swap contracts as of December 31, 2005, is a $7 million liability. The remainder of International Papers interest rate swap agreements qualify as fully effective fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, outstanding notional amounts for its interest rate swap fair value hedges amounted to approximately $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The fair values of these swaps were net assets of approximately $7 million and $70 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, interest rate swap hedges with a notional value of $313 million were terminated in connection with various early retirements of debt. The resulting gain of approximately $6 million is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations (see Note 6). In 2004, International Paper cash settled interest rate swaption contracts for a loss of $10 million, which was recorded in earnings. In April 2004, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $500 million were terminated in connection with the early retirement of International Papers $1.0 billion notes due in July 2005. The resulting gain of approximately $14 million is included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations (see Note 6). COMMODITY RISK To minimize volatility in earnings due to large fluctuations in the price of commodities, International Paper may use swap and option contracts to manage risks associated with market fluctuations in energy prices. Such cash flow hedges are accounted for by deferring the after tax quarterly change in fair value of the outstanding contracts in OCI. On the date a contract matures, the gain or loss is reclassified into cost of products sold concurrent with the recognition of the commodity purchased. In 2005, there was no reclassification from OCI to earnings related to commodity hedging, and in 2004, the reclassification to earnings was immaterial. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the reclassification to earnings was an after tax gain of $24 million, representing the after tax cash settlements on maturing energy hedge contracts. Unrealized after tax losses of $2 million for 2005 and 2004 and after tax gains of $12 million for 2003 were recorded to OCI. After tax losses of approximately $2 million as of December 31, 2005, are expected to be reclassified to earnings in 2006. The 68 Table of Contents net fair value of energy hedge contracts as of December 31, 2005, is a $1 million asset recorded in Other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK International Papers policy has been to hedge certain investments in non U.S. operations through borrowings denominated in the same currency as the operations functional currency, or by entering into cross currency and interest rate swaps or foreign exchange contracts. These financial instruments are effective as hedges against fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Gains or losses from changes in the fair value of these instruments, which are offset in whole or in part by translation gains and losses on the non U.S. operations net assets hedged, are recorded as translation adjustments in OCI. Upon liquidation or sale of the foreign investments, the accumulated gains or losses from the revaluation of the hedging instruments, together with the translation gains and losses on the net assets, are included in earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, net gains and losses included in the cumulative translation adjustment relating to derivative and debt instruments hedging foreign net investments amounted to a $19 million gain, a $74 million loss and an $89 million loss after taxes and minority interest, respectively. The 2004 loss includes $50 million relating to net investment hedges that were included in the loss on sale of Weldwood in Discontinued operations in 2004. Foreign exchange contracts (including forward, swap and purchase option contracts) are also used to hedge certain transactions, primarily trade receipts and payments denominated in foreign currencies, to manage volatility associated with these transactions and to protect International Paper from currency fluctuations between the contract date and ultimate settlement. These contracts, most of which have been designated as cash flow hedges, had maturities of four years or less as of December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, net unrealized gains after taxes and minority interest totaling $48 million, $72 million and $53 million, respectively, were recorded to OCI. Net after tax gains of $14 million, $4 million and $10 million were reclassified to earnings. Gains relating to CHH, after taxes and minority interest, totaling $14 million, $22 million and $31 million are included in Discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cumulative OCI after tax and minority interest gains of $40 million are included in the gain on sale of CHH in Discontinued operations in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, gains of $19 million after taxes are expected to be reclassified to earnings in 2006. Other contracts are used to offset the earnings impact relating to the variability in exchange rates on certain short term monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non functional currencies and are not designated as hedges. Changes in the fair value of these instruments, recognized currently in earnings to offset the remeasurement of the related assets and liabilities, were not significant. International Paper does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The counterparties to swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts consist of a number of major international financial institutions. International Paper continually monitors its positions with and the credit quality of these financial institutions and does not expect nonperformance by the counterparties. NOTE 14 CAPITAL STOCK The authorized capital stock at both December 31, 2005 and 2004, consisted of 990,850,000 shares of common stock, $1 par value; 400,000 shares of cumulative $4 preferred stock, without par value (stated value $100 per share); and 8,750,000 shares of serial preferred stock, $1 par value. The serial preferred stock is issuable in one or more series by the Board of Directors without further shareholder action. NOTE 15 RETIREMENT PLANS U.S. DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS International Paper maintains pension plans that provide retirement benefits to substantially all domestic employees hired prior to July 1, 2004. These employees generally are eligible to participate in the plans upon completion of one year of service and attainment of age 21. Employees hired after June 30, 2004, who are not eligible for this pension plan receive an additional company contribution to their savings plan (see Other Plans on page 73). The plans provide defined benefits based on years of credited service and either final average earnings (salaried employees), hourly job rates or specified benefit rates (hourly and union employees). International Paper makes contributions that are sufficient to fully fund its actuarially determined costs, generally equal to the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). International Paper made no contributions to the qualified defined benefit plan in 2005 or 2004, and does not expect to make any contributions in 2006 unless International Paper changes its funding policy to make contributions above the minimum requirements. The U.S. Congress is currently considering various proposals that would change the minimum funding requirements for qualified defined benefit plans in future 69 Table of Contents years. While the amount of any required contributions after 2006 will depend upon the final rules adopted and other factors, including changes in discount rates and actual plan asset returns, the Company currently estimates that a contribution in 2007 of $40 million to $200 million may be required. The nonqualified plan is only funded to the extent of benefits paid, which are expected to be $34 million in 2006. Net Periodic Pension Expense Service cost is the actuarial present value of benefits attributed by the plans benefit formula to services rendered by employees during the year. Interest cost represents the increase in the projected benefit obligation, which is a discounted amount, due to the passage of time. The expected return on plan assets reflects the computed amount of current year earnings from the investment of plan assets using an estimated long term rate of return. Net periodic pension expense for qualified and nonqualified U.S. defined benefit plans comprised the following: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $129 $115 $107 Interest cost 474 467 469 Expected return on plan assets (556 ) (592 ) (598 ) Actuarial loss 167 94 57 Amortization of prior service cost 29 27 25 Net periodic pension expense (a) $243 $111 $60 (a) Excludes $6.5 million, $3.4 million and $8.3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, in curtailment losses, and $3.6 million, $1.4 million and $6.3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, of special termination benefits, in connection with cost reduction programs and facility rationalizations that were recorded in Restructuring and other charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Also excludes $14.3 million and $0.3 million in 2005 and 2003, respectively, in curtailment losses, and $7.6 million of special termination benefits in 2005 related to certain divestitures recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated statement of operations. The increases in 2005 and 2004 U.S. pension expense were due to increases in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses, reductions in the discount rate and a reduction in 2005 in the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, net of a reduction in 2004 in the assumed rate of future compensation increase. International Paper evaluates its actuarial assumptions annually as of December 31 (the measurement date) and considers changes in these long term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. These assumptions are used to calculate benefit obligations as of December 31 of the current year, and pension expense to be recorded in the following year. Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.75 % 6.00 % 6.50 % Expected long term return on plan assets 8.50 % 8.75 % 8.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.25 % 3.25 % 3.75 % Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.50 % 5.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.25 % 3.25 % The expected long term rate of return on plan assets is based on projected rates of return for current and planned asset classes in the plans investment portfolio. Projected rates of return are developed through an asset/liability study in which projected returns for each of the plans asset classes are determined after analyzing historical experience and future expectations of returns and volatility of the various asset classes. Based on the target asset allocation for each asset class, the overall expected rate of return for the portfolio is developed considering the effects of active portfolio management and expenses paid from plan assets. The discount rate assumption is determined based on a yield curve that incorporates approximately 500 550 Aa graded bonds. The plans projected cash flows are then matched to the yield curve to develop the discount rate. To calculate pension expense for 2006, the Company will use an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.50%, a discount rate of 5.50% and an assumed rate of compensation increase of 3.25%. The Company estimates that it will record net pension expense of approximately $370 million for its U.S. defined benefit plans in 2006, with the increase from expense of $243 million in 2005 principally reflecting a change in the mortality assumption to use the Retirement Protection Act 2000 table (RP 2000) in 2006 versus the Group Annuity Mortality Table 1983 (GAM83) used in 2005, an increase in the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses over a shorter average remaining service period, and a decrease in the assumed discount rate to 5.50% in 2006 from 5.75% in 2005. 70 Table of Contents The following illustrates the effect on pension expense for 2006 of a 25 basis point decrease in the above assumptions: In millions 2006 Expense/(Income): Discount rate $27 Expected long term return on plan assets 16 Rate of compensation increase (6 ) Investment Policy / Strategy Plan assets are invested to maximize returns within prudent levels of risk. The target allocations by asset class are summarized in the following table. Investments are diversified across classes and within each class to minimize risk. The investment policy permits the use of swaps, options, forwards and futures contracts. Periodic reviews are made of investment policy objectives and investment manager performance. International Papers pension plan asset allocations by type of fund at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and target allocations by asset category are as follows: Percentage ofPlan Assets atDecember 31, Asset Category TargetAllocations 2005 2004 Equity securities 52% 63% 61 % 62 % Debt securities 26% 34% 28 % 27 % Real estate 5% 10% 9 % 8 % Other 2% 8% 2 % 3 % Total 100 % 100 % No plan assets were invested in International Paper common stock at December 31, 2005 or 2004. At December 31, 2005, projected future pension benefit payments are as follows: In millions 2006 $525 2007 515 2008 517 2009 523 2010 536 2011 2015 2,932 Minimum Pension Liability Adjustment At December 31, 2002, International Papers qualified defined benefit pension plan had a prepaid benefit cost of approximately $1.7 billion. At this date, the market value of the plan assets was less than the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for this plan. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, the prepaid asset was reversed and an additional minimum liability of $2.7 billion was established equal to the shortfall of the market value of plan assets below the ABO plus the prepaid benefit cost. This resulted in an after tax direct charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) of $1.5 billion, with no impact on earnings, earnings per share or cash. This reduction to Shareholders equity had no adverse affect on International Papers debt covenants. Strong actual returns on plan assets in the fourth quarter of 2004 increased the market value of plan assets by more than the increase in the ABO, resulting in a reduction in the required additional minimum pension liability. As a result, a credit to after tax OCI was recognized in the amount of $41 million at December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2005, the change in the mortality assumption increased the ABO by more than plan assets requiring an after tax charge to OCI of $290 million. International Paper also incurred adjustments to the nonqualified plan additional minimum liabilities and recorded after tax charges to OCI of $14 million and $8 million, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table summarizes the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets for the qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans at December 31, 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Projected benefit obligation $9,278 $8,294 Accumulated benefit obligation 8,855 7,927 Fair value of plan assets 6,944 6,745 Unrecognized Actuarial Losses SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated projected plan benefit obligation due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected return on plan assets and other assumption changes. These net gains and losses are recognized prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans (approximately 11 years as of December 31, 2005) to the extent that they are not offset by gains and losses in subsequent years. Unrecognized actuarial losses shown in the following table were $3.2 billion and $2.6 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively. While actual future amortization charges will be affected by future gains/losses, the amortization of cumulative unrecognized losses as of December 31, 2005, is expected to increase pension expense by $68 million in 2006, while decreasing expense by $24 million in 2007 and $38 million in 2008. The following table shows the changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004, and the 71 Table of Contents plans funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. The benefit obligation as of December 31, 2005, increased by $984 million, principally as a result of the change in the mortality assumption with a smaller impact from a decrease in the discount rate used in computing the estimated benefit obligation. Plan assets increased by $199 million, principally reflecting higher actual market returns. In millions 2005 2004 Change in projected benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $8,294 $7,899 Service cost 129 115 Interest cost 474 467 Actuarial loss 833 288 Benefits paid (515 ) (537 ) Acquisitions 1 Divestitures (4 ) Restructuring 4 1 Special termination benefits 11 1 Plan amendments 52 59 Benefit obligation, December 31 $9,278 $8,294 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $6,745 $6,436 Actual return on plan assets 694 797 Company contributions 20 49 Benefits paid (515 ) (537 ) Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $6,944 $6,745 Funded status $(2,334 ) $(1,549 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 3,181 2,632 Unamortized prior service cost 310 330 Prepaid benefit costs $1,157 $1,413 Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Accrued benefit liability $(1,911 ) $(1,182 ) Intangible asset 310 330 Minimum pension liability adjustment included in accumulated other comprehensive income 2,758 2,265 Net amount recognized $1,157 $1,413 NON U.S. DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Generally, International Papers non U.S. pension plans are funded using the projected benefit as a target, except in certain countries where funding of benefit plans is not required. Net periodic pension expense for non U.S. plans was as follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $11 $10 $9 Interest cost 12 11 9 Expected return on plan assets (10 ) (8 ) (6 ) Actuarial loss 2 1 1 Curtailment gain (1 ) Estimated expenses 1 Net periodic pension expense (a) $15 $15 $12 (a) Excludes $1.7 million of curtailment gains in 2005 related to the divestiture of Maresquel recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated statement of operations. Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.11 % 5.43 % 5.58 % Expected long term return on plan assets 6.68 % 6.66 % 6.75 % Rate of compensation increase 3.32 % 3.50 % 3.64 % Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 4.86 % 5.55 % Rate of compensation increase 3.39 % 3.58 % The difference between the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and the assumptions used to determine net pension expense is due to Carter Holt Harvey and Weldwood divestitures being disclosed in the benefit obligation rollforward and not in the net pension expense assumptions. 72 Table of Contents The following table shows the changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004 and the plans funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. In millions 2005 2004 Change in projected benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $365 $587 Obligations for additional plans 1 9 Service cost 11 10 Interest cost 12 11 Participants contributions 3 7 Plan amendments (3 ) Divestitures (121 ) (247 ) Curtailment gains (2 ) Actuarial loss 40 10 Benefits paid (12 ) (41 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements (21 ) 22 Benefit obligation, December 31 $276 $365 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $255 $423 Assets for additional plans 2 Actual return on plan assets 30 36 Administrative expenses (3 ) Company contributions 16 47 Benefits paid (12 ) (40 ) Participants contributions 3 7 Divestitures (108 ) (230 ) Effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements (11 ) 13 Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $173 $255 Funded status $(103 ) $(110 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 57 68 Unrecognized transition asset (1 ) (1 ) Unamortized prior service cost (1 ) 2 Prepaid benefit costs $(48 ) $(41 ) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet consist of: Prepaid benefit cost $2 $22 Accrued benefit liability (93 ) (111 ) Intangible asset 1 Minimum pension liability adjustment included in accumulated other comprehensive income 43 47 Net amount recognized $(48 ) $(41 ) The reductions in the benefit obligation and in plan assets in 2005 are mainly due to the sale of CHH. For non U.S. plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets totaled $232 million, $207 million, and $127 million, respectively, at December 31, 2005. Plan assets consist principally of common stock and fixed income securities. Adjustments to the non U.S. plans additional minimum liabilities at December 31, 2005, resulted in a debit to OCI of $12 million after taxes, less a credit of $11 million after taxes and minority interest related to the sale of CHH, for a net charge to OCI of $1 million. A credit of $1 million after taxes was recorded to OCI at December 31, 2004. OTHER PLANS International Paper sponsors defined contribution plans (primarily 401(k) plans) to provide substantially all U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees of International Paper an opportunity to accumulate personal funds and to provide additional benefits to employees hired after June 30, 2004, for their retirement. Contributions may be made on a before tax basis to substantially all of these plans. As determined by the provisions of each plan, International Paper matches the employees basic voluntary contributions and, for employees hired after June 30, 2004, contributes an additional percentage of pay. Such contributions to the plans totaled approximately $88 million, $87 million and $95 million for the plan years ending in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net assets of these plans were approximately $4.3 billion as of the 2005 plan year end, including approximately $666 million (15.5%) in International Paper common stock. NOTE 16 POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS U.S. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS International Paper provides certain retiree health care and life insurance benefits covering a majority of U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. These employees are generally eligible for benefits upon retirement and completion of a specified number of years of creditable service. Excluded from company provided medical benefits are salaried employees whose age plus years of employment with the Company totaled less than 60 as of January 1, 2004. International Paper does not fund these benefits prior to payment and has the right to modify or terminate certain of these plans in the future. On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. This Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. 73 Table of Contents In accordance with FSP FAS 106 2, the effects of the Act on International Papers plans have been recorded prospectively beginning July 1, 2004. This resulted in a reduction of net postretirement benefit cost of approximately $8 million and a reduction of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) of approximately $110 million in 2004, which is treated as a reduction of unrecognized actuarial losses that are amortized to expense over the average remaining service period of employees eligible for postretirement benefits. The final regulations for the implementation of the Act were released on January 21, 2005. This resulted in a remeasurement of the plan that reduced net postretirement benefit costs by $14 million and reduced the APBO by $59 million in 2005. The components of postretirement benefit expense in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: In millions 2005 2004 2003 Service cost $2 $6 $7 Interest cost 38 52 54 Actuarial loss 20 35 23 Amortization of prior service cost (40 ) (40 ) (29 ) Net postretirement benefit cost (a) $20 $53 $55 (a) Excludes $1.8 million, $1.0 million and $5.3 million of curtailment gains in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and $0.8 million in 2005 and 2004 and $1.3 million in 2003 of special termination benefits related to cost reduction programs and facility rationalizations that were recorded in Restructuring and other charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Also excludes $4.1 million in curtailment gains in 2005 and $1 million of special termination benefits in 2005 related to certain divestitures recorded in Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses held for sale in the consolidated financial statements. International Paper evaluates its actuarial assumptions annually as of December 31 (the measurement date) and considers changes in these long term factors based upon market conditions and the requirements of SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The discount rates used to determine net cost for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Discount rate 5.50 % 6.00 % 6.38 % The weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 2005 2004 Discount rate 5.50 % 5.75 % Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 10.00 % 10.00 % Rate that the cost trend rate gradually declines to 5.00 % 5.00 % Year that the rate reaches the rate it is assumed to remain 2010 2009 A 1% increase in the assumed annual health care cost trend rate would have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005, by approximately $35 million. A 1% decrease in the annual trend rate would have decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005, by approximately $32 million. The effect on net postretirement benefit cost from a 1% increase or decrease would be approximately $2 million. The plan is only funded in an amount equal to benefits paid. The following table presents the changes in benefit obligation and plan assets for 2005 and 2004: In millions 2005 2004 Change in benefit obligation: Benefit obligation, January 1 $838 $1,000 Service cost 2 6 Interest cost 38 52 Participants contributions 42 38 Actuarial gain (100 ) (118 ) Benefits paid (136 ) (138 ) Plan amendments 13 (5 ) Divestitures 1 Restructuring 3 2 Special termination benefits 2 1 Benefit obligation, December 31 $703 $838 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, January 1 $ $ Company contributions 94 100 Participants contributions 42 38 Benefits paid (136 ) (138 ) Fair value of plan assets, December 31 $ $ Funded status $(703 ) $(838 ) Unamortized prior service cost (167 ) (229 ) Unrecognized actuarial loss 238 357 Accrued benefit cost $(632 ) $(710 ) 74 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, estimated total future postretirement benefit payments, net of participant contributions and estimated future Medicare Part D subsidy receipts are as follows: In millions BenefitPayments SubsidyReceipts 2006 $87 $(13 ) 2007 86 (14 ) 2008 83 (15 ) 2009 81 (16 ) 2010 79 (17 ) 2011 2015 352 (90 ) NON U.S. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS In addition to the U.S. plan, certain Canadian and Brazilian employees are eligible for retiree health care and life insurance. Net postretirement benefit cost for our non U.S. plans was $3 million for 2005 and $2 million for 2004. The benefit obligation for these plans was $21 million in 2005 and $20 million in 2004. NOTE 17 INCENTIVE PLANS International Paper currently has a Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) that includes a Stock Option Program, a Restricted Performance Share Program and a Continuity Award Program, administered by a committee of nonemployee members of the Board of Directors (Committee) who are not eligible for awards. Also, stock appreciation rights (SARs) have been awarded to employees of a non U.S. subsidiary, with 5,135 and 5,435 rights outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We also have other performance based restricted share/unit programs available to senior executives and directors. International Paper applies the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations and the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, in accounting for our plans. SFAS No. 123(R) will be adopted effective January 1, 2006. As no unvested stock options were outstanding at this date, the Company believes that the adoption will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. STOCK OPTION PROGRAM International Paper accounts for stock options using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion No. 25. Under this method, compensation expense is recorded over the related service period when the market price exceeds the option price at the measurement date, which is the grant date for International Papers options. No compensation expense is recorded as options are issued with an exercise price equal to the market price of International Paper stock on the grant date. During each reporting period, fully diluted earnings per share is calculated by assuming that in the money options are exercised and the exercise proceeds are used to repurchase shares in the marketplace. When options are actually exercised, option proceeds are credited to equity and issued shares are included in the computation of earnings per common share, with no effect on reported earnings. Equity is also increased by the tax benefit that International Paper will receive in its tax return for income reported by the optionees in their individual tax returns. Under the program, officers and certain other employees may be granted options to purchase International Paper common stock. The option price is the market price of the stock on the close of business on the day prior to the date of grant. Options must be vested before they can be exercised. Upon exercise of an option, a replacement option may be granted under certain circumstances with an exercise price equal to the market price at the time of exercise and with a term extending to the expiration date of the original option. The Company discontinued its stock option program in 2004 for members of executive management, and in 2005 for all other eligible U.S. and non U.S. employees. In the United States, the stock option program was replaced with a performance based restricted share program for approximately 1,250 employees to more closely tie long term incentive compensation to Company performance on two key performance drivers: return on investment (ROI) and total shareholder return (TSR). As part of this shift in focus away from stock options to performance based restricted stock, the Company accelerated the vesting of all 14 million unvested stock options to July 12, 2005. The Company also considered the benefit to employees and the income statement impact in making its decision to accelerate the vesting of these options. Based on the market value of the Companys common stock on July 12, 2005, the exercise prices of all such stock options were above the market value and, accordingly, the Company recorded no expense as a result of this action. 75 Table of Contents For pro forma disclosure purposes (see Note 1), the fair market value of each option grant has been estimated on the date of the grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively: 2005 2004 2003 Initial Options (a) Risk Free Interest Rate 3.82 % 3.23 % 2.46 % Price Volatility 22.65 % 24.41 % 24.06 % Dividend Yield 2.53 % 2.53 % 2.71 % Expected Term in Years 3.50 3.50 3.50 Replacement Options (b) Risk Free Interest Rate 2.99 % 2.14 % 1.59 % Price Volatility 21.78 % 22.83 % 23.70 % Dividend Yield 2.42 % 2.30 % 2.57 % Expected Term in Years 0.32 1.60 1.75 (a) The average fair market values of initial option grants during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $6.78, $6.90 and $5.86, respectively. (b) The average fair market values of replacement option grants during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $2.05, $4.76 and $4.39, respectively. The following summarizes the status of the Stock Option Program and the changes during the three years ending December 31, 2005: Options (a,b) WeightedAverageExercisePrice Outstanding at December 31, 2002 37,154,020 $40.11 Granted 11,315,401 37.08 Exercised (2,778,038 ) 31.87 Forfeited (1,823,244 ) 41.19 Expired (1,062,311 ) 51.71 Outstanding at December 31, 2003 42,805,828 39.51 Granted 9,663,303 39.70 Exercised (4,726,957 ) 34.60 Forfeited (1,059,215 ) 40.86 Expired (1,248,052 ) 51.40 Outstanding at December 31, 2004 45,434,907 39.70 Granted 861,827 39.64 Exercised (602,746 ) 33.74 Forfeited (1,607,979 ) 41.44 Expired (2,504,411 ) 43.52 Outstanding at December 31, 2005 41,581,598 $39.49 (a) The table does not include Continuity Award tandem stock options described below. No fair market value is assigned to these options under SFAS No. 123. The tandem restricted shares accompanying these options are expensed over their vesting period. (b) The table includes options outstanding under an acquired company plan under which options may no longer be granted. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005: Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Prices OptionsOutstandingas of12/31/05 WeightedAverageRemainingLife WeightedAverageExercisePrice OptionsOutstandingas of12/31/05 WeightedAverageExercisePrice $29.31 $33.80 6,264,472 5.6 $ 31.77 6,264,472 $ 31.77 $33.81 $39.77 19,514,939 6.7 $ 37.25 19,514,939 $ 37.25 $39.78 $45.74 11,113,806 5.9 $ 41.34 11,113,806 $ 41.34 $45.75 $51.71 1,746,895 2.9 $ 47.42 1,746,895 $ 47.42 $51.72 $57.68 213,192 0.8 $ 54.23 213,192 $ 54.23 $57.69 $63.65 2,550,094 3.8 $ 59.14 2,550,094 $ 59.14 $63.66 $66.81 178,200 4.0 $ 64.70 178,200 $ 64.70 41,581,598 6.0 $ 39.49 41,581,598 $ 39.49 76 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE BASED RESTRICTED SHARES Under the Restricted Performance Share Program, contingent awards of International Paper common stock are granted by the Committee. Shares are earned on the basis of International Papers financial performance over a period of consecutive calendar years as determined by the Committee. Under a Restricted Performance Share Program approved during 2001 and amended in 2004, awards vesting over a three year period were granted in 2003 and 2004. In 2005, the plan was amended to provide for segmentation in which one fourth of the award vests during each twelve month period, with the final one fourth segment vesting over the full three year period. Compensation expense for this variable plan is recorded over the applicable vesting period. The following summarizes the activity of all performance based programs for the three years ending December 31, 2005: Shares Outstanding at December 31, 2002 1,277,340 Granted (a) 658,155 Issued (586,237 ) Forfeited (164,803 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2003 1,184,455 Granted (a) 1,581,442 Issued (391,691 ) Forfeited (128,957 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2004 2,245,249 Granted (a) 2,831,566 Issued (b) (519,533 ) Forfeited (361,965 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 4,195,317 (a) The weighted average fair value of performance shares granted was $41.56, $42.95 and $35.34 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (b) Includes 114,177 shares held for payout at the end of the performance period. CONTINUITY AWARD PROGRAM The Continuity Award Program provides for the granting of tandem awards of restricted stock and or nonqualified stock options to key executives. Grants are restricted and awards conditioned on attainment of specified age and years of service requirements. Awarding of a tandem stock option results in the cancellation of the related restricted shares. The Continuity Award Program also provides for awards of restricted stock to key employees. The following summarizes the activity of the Continuity Award Program for the three years ending December 31, 2005: Shares Outstanding at December 31, 2002 238,072 Granted (a) 149,500 Issued (60,912 ) Forfeited (b) (22,500 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2003 304,160 Granted (a) 31,500 Issued (22,700 ) Forfeited (b) (26,461 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2004 286,499 Granted (a) 8,000 Issued (13,000 ) Forfeited (b) (31,124 ) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 250,375 (a) The weighted average fair value of restricted shares granted was $43.10, $43.20 and $37.20 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (b) Also includes restricted shares canceled when tandem stock options were awarded. No tandem options were awarded in 2005, 2004 or 2003. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, a total of 21.1 million and 20.3 million shares, respectively, were available for grant under the LTICP. In 2004, shareholders had approved an additional 14 million shares to be used for grant. In 2003, shareholders had approved an additional 10 million shares to be made available for grant, with 100,000 of these shares reserved specifically for the granting of restricted stock. A total of 12.5 million shares, 14.9 million shares and 2.3 million shares were available for the granting of restricted stock as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The compensation cost charged to earnings for all the incentive plans under the LTICP was $53 million for 2005 and $29 million for both 2004 and 2003. 77 Table of Contents International Paper Company INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED) (a) In millions, except per share amounts and stock prices 1stQuarter 2ndQuarter 3rdQuarter 4thQuarter Year 2005 Net Sales $6,011 $5,916 $6,036 $6,134 $24,097 Gross Margin (b) 1,545 1,501 1,504 1,408 5,958 Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 120 (c) 259 (e) 372 (g) (165 )(i) 586 (c,e,g,i) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (31 )(d) (14 )(d) 281 (d) 5 (d) 241 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 77 (c,d) 77 (d,e,f) 1,023 (d,g,h) (77 )(d,i,j) 1,100 (c j) Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations $0.22 (c) $0.19 (e,f) $1.53 (g,h) $(0.17) (i,j) $1.77 (c,d j) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (0.06 )(d) (0.03 )(d) 0.58 (d) 0.01 (d) 0.49 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.16 (c,d) 0.16 (d,e,f) 2.11 (d,g,h) (0.16 )(d,i,j) 2.26 (c j) Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations $0.22 (c) $0.19 (e,f) $1.48 (g,h) $(0.17) (i,j) $1.74 (c,d j) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations (0.06 )(d) (0.03 )(d) 0.55 (d) 0.01 (d) 0.47 (d) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.16 (c,d) 0.16 (d,e,f) 2.03 (d,g,h) (0.16 )(d,i,j) 2.21 (c j) Dividends Per Share of Common Stock 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.00 Common Stock Prices High $42.59 $37.92 $35.05 $34.90 $42.59 Low 35.67 30.16 29.45 26.97 26.97 2004 Net Sales $5,623 $5,703 $6,016 $6,017 $23,359 Gross Margin (b) 1,412 1,515 1,604 1,603 6,134 Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 85 (k) 112 (m) 333 (o) 194 (p) 724 (k,m,o,p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 25 (l) 156 (l) (685 )(l) 13 (l) (491 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 73 (k,l) 193 (l,m,n) (470 )(l,o) 169 (l,p) (35 )(k p) Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings From Continuing Operations $0.10 (k) $0.08 (m,n) $0.44 (o) $0.32 (p) $0.94 (k,m p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 0.05 (l) 0.32 (l) (1.41 )(l) 0.03 (l) (1.01 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.15 (k,l) 0.40 (l,m,n) (0.97 )(l,o) 0.35 (l,p) (0.07 )(k p) Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Earnings From Continuing Operations $0.10 (k) $0.08 (m,n) $0.44 (o) $0.32 (p) $0.93 (k,m p) Earnings (Loss) From Discontinued Operations 0.05 (l) 0.32 (l) (1.35 )(l) 0.03 (l) (1.00 )(l) Net Earnings (Loss) 0.15 (k,l) 0.40 (l,m,n) (0.91 )(l,o) 0.35 (l,p) (0.07 )(k p) Dividends Per Share of Common Stock 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 1.00 Common Stock Prices High $45.01 $44.81 $44.65 $42.52 $45.01 Low 39.80 37.91 38.22 37.12 37.12 Note: Since basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each period and category, full year per share amounts may not equal the sum of the four quarters. 78 Table of Contents Footnotes to Interim Financial Results (a) All periods presented have been restated to reflect the Carter Holt Harvey Limited business and the Weldwood of Canada Limited business as Discontinued operations. (b) Gross margin represents net sales less cost of products sold. (c) Includes a $24 million charge before taxes ($15 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt and a $79 million charge before taxes ($52 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses held for sale. (d) Includes net income of CHH prior to its sale in the third quarter of 2005. Also included in the 2005 third quarter is a gain of $29 million before taxes ($361 million after taxes) from the sale of CHH. (e) Includes a $31 million charge before taxes ($19 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges, a pre tax credit of $35 million ($21 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a $19 million pre tax credit ($12 million after taxes) for net adjustments of losses on businesses previously sold, and interest income of $11 million before taxes ($7 million after taxes) related to the collection of a note receivable from a 2001 sale. (f) Includes an $82 million increase in the income tax provision, including approximately $79 million for deferred taxes related to earnings repatriated during the quarter under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. (g) Includes a $44 million charge before taxes ($32 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges, a pre tax charge of $26 million ($16 million after taxes) for losses on early extinguishment of debt, a pre tax credit of $188 million ($109 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a net charge of $5 million before taxes ($3 million after taxes) for adjustments of losses on businesses previously sold, a $3 million pre tax credit ($2 million after taxes) for the net adjustment of previously provided reserves, and interest income of $43 million before taxes ($26 million after taxes) relating to a tax audit agreement. (h) Includes a $517 million net reduction of the income tax provision, including a credit of $553 million from an agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concerning the 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audits, a charge of $21 million related to cash repatriations from non U.S. subsidiaries, and a charge of $15 million relating to a change in Ohio state tax laws. (i) Includes a $199 million charge before taxes ($123 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring charges associated with the Companys previously announced Transformation Plan, a $27 million charge before taxes ($16 million after taxes) for legal reserves, a $7 million charge before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a $35 million pretax credit ($21 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a pretax charge of $46 million ($30 million after taxes) for adjustments of estimated losses on businesses sold or held for sale, and a $1 million credit for adjustments of previously provided reserves. (j) Includes an $11 million tax benefit, reflecting a $74 million favorable adjustment from the finalization of the Companys 1997 through 2000 U.S. federal income tax audit, a $43 million provision for deferred taxes related to earnings being repatriated under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and $20 million of other tax charges. (k) Includes a $14 million charge before taxes ($9 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a $16 million charge before taxes ($10 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $9 million before taxes ($6 million after taxes) to adjust estimated gains/losses of businesses previously sold, and a credit of $7 million before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. (l) Includes net income of Weldwood of Canada, Limited, and CHH prior to their sales. Also included in the 2004 second quarter is a gain of $268 million before taxes and minority interest ($90 million after taxes and minority interest) from the sale of the CHH Tissue business in the 2004 third quarter, and a charge of $306 million before taxes ($716 million after taxes) to write down the assets of Weldwood to their estimated net realizable value. The 2004 fourth quarter also includes a charge of $17 million before taxes ($5 million credit after taxes) to adjust the loss on the sale of Weldwood. (m) Includes a $32 million charge before taxes ($20 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a $65 million charge before taxes ($40 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a charge of $31 million before taxes ($29 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses held for sale, and a credit of $6 million before taxes ($3 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. 79 Table of Contents (n) Includes a $32 million increase in the income tax provision reflecting an adjustment of deferred tax balances. (o) Includes an $18 million charge before taxes ($11 million after taxes) for organizational restructuring programs, a charge of $8 million before taxes ($5 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $103 million before taxes ($64 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a net charge of $38 million before and after taxes for estimated losses of businesses sold or held for sale, and a credit of $6 million before taxes ($4 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. (p) Includes a $10 million charge before taxes ($6 million after taxes) for litigation settlements, a $3 million charge before taxes ($2 million after taxes) for losses on early debt extinguishment, a credit of $20 million before taxes ($12 million after taxes) for insurance recoveries related to the hardboard siding and roofing litigation, a charge of $79 million before taxes ($64 million after taxes) for estimated losses of businesses sold or held for sale, and a credit of $17 million before taxes ($11 million after taxes) for the net reversal of restructuring and realignment reserves no longer required. 80 Table of Contents ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Controls and Procedures: As of December 31, 2005, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Rule 13a 15 under the Securities Exchange Act (the Act). Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported by the management of the Company on a timely basis in order to comply with the Companys disclosure obligations under the Act and the SEC rules thereunder. Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting, including the safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition. These controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding preparation of reliable published financial statements and such asset safeguarding, and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded properly to allow for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements; and provide reasonable assurance as to the detection of fraud. All internal control systems have inherent limitations, including the possibility of circumvention and overriding of controls, and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance as to such financial statement preparation and asset safeguarding. The system is supported by written policies and procedures, contains self monitoring mechanisms, and is audited by the internal audit function. Appropriate actions are taken by management to correct deficiencies as they are identified. As of December 31, 2005, management has assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. In a report included on page 38, management concluded that, based on its assessment, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, we used the criteria described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, with direct access to our Board of Directors through our Audit Committee, have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by us. Their report on the consolidated financial statements is included in Part II, 
 
