Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. A discussion of the Companys Transformation Plan to concentrate on two key global platform businesses, Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging, can be found on pages 33 through 35 of Item 7. From 2002 through 2006, International Papers capital expenditures approximated $5.1 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, lower costs and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2006 was approximately $1.0 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.2 billion in 2007. This amount is about the same as our expected annual depreciation and amortization expense. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 30 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on page 30 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 20 through 22 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth on pages 43 and 44 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Companys manufacturing capacities on page A 3 of Appendix II. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sells paper, packaging products, building materials and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, packaging and graphic arts supplies. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally. DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS The Companys principal products are described on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) (Unaudited) 2006 2005 2004 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) Brazil Uncoated Papers 477 447 461 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,455 1,419 1,409 U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 3,991 3,850 4,179 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 5,923 5,716 6,049 Coated Papers (3) 1,168 1,996 1,757 Market Pulp (4) 1,124 1,291 1,422 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,628 3,578 2,821 European Container (Boxes) 1,267 1,073 1,049 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 525 421 745 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,420 5,072 4,615 Containerboard 1,816 1,937 2,090 Bleached Packaging Board 1,503 1,264 1,000 Coated Bristols 410 411 435 Saturated and Bleached Kraft Papers 232 242 272 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for divested businesses classified as discontinued operations. (3) Sold in the third quarter of 2006. International Paper has a 10% continuing interest in the owning entity. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, a regional center for applied forest research in Bainbridge, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $45 million in 2006, $63 million in 2005, and $67 million in 2004. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 40 and 41 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 60,600 employees, 42,000 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 27,700 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 16,300 employees. Approximately 13,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2006, new labor agreements were ratified at four paper mills, with one paper mill, Savannah, Georgia, carrying over to be ratified in early 2007. In addition, negotiations at the Terre Haute, Indiana, mill have also been carried over into 2007. During 2007, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at three additional paper mill operations including Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama. During 2006, 25 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2007, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 non paper mill operations, plus eight non paper mill contracts are carrying over from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 57, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 61, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 62, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations, global sourcing, logistics and a large supply chain project. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. 4 Michael J. Balduino, 56, senior vice president of the Company responsible for consumer products converting business and president of the Companys Shorewood Packaging Corp. subsidiary since 2004. Mr. Balduino joined the Company in 1992 and previously served as the Companys senior vice president of sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. H. Wayne Brafford, 55, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 58, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 50, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 60, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Paul Herbert, 57, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communication papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 50, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 46, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Andrew R. Lessin, 64, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Lessin joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 54, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 47, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 51, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing the public affairs function of the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and, in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 51, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. NATURAL DISASTERS. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN THE ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE SALES TRANSACTIONS CURRENTLY UNDER CONTRACT. The Companys ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the Transformation Plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. THE ABILITY TO INVEST PROCEEDS WITH ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL RETURNS. The Company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. The Company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ABILITY TO REALIZE ANTICIPATED PROFIT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE TRANSFORMATION PLAN. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2006, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 500,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 370,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on approximately 500,000 acres of government owned forestlands in Russia. During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds 7 totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on page 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) (Unaudited) 2006 2005 2004 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) Brazil Uncoated Papers 477 447 461 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,455 1,419 1,409 U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 3,991 3,850 4,179 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 5,923 5,716 6,049 Coated Papers (3) 1,168 1,996 1,757 Market Pulp (4) 1,124 1,291 1,422 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,628 3,578 2,821 European Container (Boxes) 1,267 1,073 1,049 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 525 421 745 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,420 5,072 4,615 Containerboard 1,816 1,937 2,090 Bleached Packaging Board 1,503 1,264 1,000 Coated Bristols 410 411 435 Saturated and Bleached Kraft Papers 232 242 272 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for divested businesses classified as discontinued operations. (3) Sold in the third quarter of 2006. International Paper has a 10% continuing interest in the owning entity. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, a regional center for applied forest research in Bainbridge, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $45 million in 2006, $63 million in 2005, and $67 million in 2004. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 40 and 41 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 60,600 employees, 42,000 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 27,700 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 16,300 employees. Approximately 13,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2006, new labor agreements were ratified at four paper mills, with one paper mill, Savannah, Georgia, carrying over to be ratified in early 2007. In addition, negotiations at the Terre Haute, Indiana, mill have also been carried over into 2007. During 2007, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at three additional paper mill operations including Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama. During 2006, 25 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2007, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 non paper mill operations, plus eight non paper mill contracts are carrying over from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 57, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 61, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 62, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations, global sourcing, logistics and a large supply chain project. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. 4 Michael J. Balduino, 56, senior vice president of the Company responsible for consumer products converting business and president of the Companys Shorewood Packaging Corp. subsidiary since 2004. Mr. Balduino joined the Company in 1992 and previously served as the Companys senior vice president of sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. H. Wayne Brafford, 55, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 58, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 50, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 60, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Paul Herbert, 57, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communication papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 50, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 46, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Andrew R. Lessin, 64, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Lessin joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 54, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 47, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 51, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing the public affairs function of the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and, in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 51, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. NATURAL DISASTERS. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN THE ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE SALES TRANSACTIONS CURRENTLY UNDER CONTRACT. The Companys ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the Transformation Plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. THE ABILITY TO INVEST PROCEEDS WITH ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL RETURNS. The Company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. The Company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ABILITY TO REALIZE ANTICIPATED PROFIT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE TRANSFORMATION PLAN. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2006, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 500,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 370,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on approximately 500,000 acres of government owned forestlands in Russia. During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds 7 totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on page 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 60,600 employees, 42,000 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 27,700 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 16,300 employees. Approximately 13,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2006, new labor agreements were ratified at four paper mills, with one paper mill, Savannah, Georgia, carrying over to be ratified in early 2007. In addition, negotiations at the Terre Haute, Indiana, mill have also been carried over into 2007. During 2007, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at three additional paper mill operations including Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama. During 2006, 25 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, chemical, distribution, consumer packaging and woodlands operations. During 2007, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 non paper mill operations, plus eight non paper mill contracts are carrying over from past years. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 57, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Prior to this, Mr. Faraci was president since 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 61, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. Marianne M. Parrs, 62, executive vice president since 1999 and chief financial officer since 2005. Ms. Parrs previously served as executive vice president administration since 1999 responsible for information technology, investor relations, global sourcing, logistics and a large supply chain project. She continues to oversee those areas in her current role. Ms. Parrs joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 58, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. He previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined the Company in 1988. 4 Michael J. Balduino, 56, senior vice president of the Company responsible for consumer products converting business and president of the Companys Shorewood Packaging Corp. subsidiary since 2004. Mr. Balduino joined the Company in 1992 and previously served as the Companys senior vice president of sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. H. Wayne Brafford, 55, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Previously, Mr. Brafford served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 58, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1999. C. Cato Ealy, 50, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. He previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 60, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Previously, Mr. Gestrich served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that, he served as vice president and general manager beverage packaging from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Paul Herbert, 57, senior vice president strategic initiatives since 2005. He previously served as senior vice president printing and communication papers from 2000 to 2005. Mr. Herbert joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas G. Kadien, 50, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Previously, Mr. Kadien served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 46, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, she served as the general manager industrial papers from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Andrew R. Lessin, 64, senior vice president internal audit since 2002. Mr. Lessin previously served as vice president finance from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Lessin joined International Paper in 1977. Maximo Pacheco, 54, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004. Prior to that, he was president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 47, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 51, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since 2003. Since 2005, Ms. Smith is also responsible for overseeing the public affairs function of the Company. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and, in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer of Owens Corning. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 51, vice president finance and controller since 2003. He previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. NATURAL DISASTERS. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN THE ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE SALES TRANSACTIONS CURRENTLY UNDER CONTRACT. The Companys ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the Transformation Plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. THE ABILITY TO INVEST PROCEEDS WITH ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL RETURNS. The Company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. The Company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ABILITY TO REALIZE ANTICIPATED PROFIT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE TRANSFORMATION PLAN. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2006, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 500,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 370,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on approximately 500,000 acres of government owned forestlands in Russia. During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds 7 totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on page 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. NATURAL DISASTERS. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN THE ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE SALES TRANSACTIONS CURRENTLY UNDER CONTRACT. The Companys ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the Transformation Plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. THE ABILITY TO INVEST PROCEEDS WITH ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL RETURNS. The Company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. The Company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ABILITY TO REALIZE ANTICIPATED PROFIT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE TRANSFORMATION PLAN. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2006, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 500,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 370,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on approximately 500,000 acres of government owned forestlands in Russia. During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds 7 totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on page 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. NATURAL DISASTERS. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS TRANSFORMATION PLAN THE ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE SALES TRANSACTIONS CURRENTLY UNDER CONTRACT. The Companys ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the Transformation Plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. THE ABILITY TO INVEST PROCEEDS WITH ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL RETURNS. The Company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. The Company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ABILITY TO REALIZE ANTICIPATED PROFIT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE TRANSFORMATION PLAN. The profitability of the Companys two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the Companys ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various forms. As of December 31, 2006, the Company or its subsidiaries owned or managed approximately 500,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 370,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on approximately 500,000 acres of government owned forestlands in Russia. During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds 7 totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on page 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on page 65 of 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY International Papers operating results in 2006 benefited from strong gains in pricing and sales volumes and lower operating costs. Our average paper and packaging prices in 2006 increased faster than our costs for the first time in four years. The improvement in sales volumes reflects increased uncoated papers, corrugated box, coated paperboard and European papers shipments, as well as improved revenues from our xpedx distribution business. Our manufacturing operations also made solid cost reduction improvements. Lower interest expense, reflecting debt repayments in 2005 and 2006, was also a positive factor. Together, these improvements more than offset the effects of continued high raw material and distribution costs, lower real estate sales, higher net corporate expenses and lower contributions from businesses and forestlands divested during 2006. Looking forward to 2007, we expect seasonally higher sales volumes in the first quarter. Average paper price realizations should continue to improve as we implement previously announced price increases in Europe and Brazil. Input costs for energy, fiber and chemicals are expected to be mixed, although slightly higher in the first quarter. Operating results will benefit from the recently completed International Paper/Sun Paperboard joint ventures in China and the addition of the Luiz Antonio paper mill to our operations in Brazil. However, primarily as a result of lower real estate sales in the first quarter, we anticipate earnings from continuing operations will be somewhat lower than in the 2006 fourth quarter. Significant steps were also taken in 2006 in the execution of the Companys Transformation Plan. We completed the sales of our U.S. and Brazilian Coated Papers businesses and 5.6 million acres of U.S. forestlands, and announced definitive sale agreements for our Kraft Papers, Beverage Packaging and Arizona Chemical businesses and a majority of our Wood Products business, all expected to close during 2007. Through December 31, 2006, we have received approximately $9.7 billion of the estimated proceeds from divestitures announced under this plan of approximately $11.3 billion, with the balance to be received as the remaining divestitures are completed in the first half of 2007. We have strengthened our balance sheet by reducing debt by $6.2 billion, and returned value to our shareholders by repurchasing 39.7 million shares of our common stock for approximately $1.4 billion. We made a $1.0 billion voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension fund. We have identified selective reinvestment opportunities totaling approximately $2.0 billion, including opportunities in China, Brazil and Russia. Finally, we remain focused on our three year $1.2 billion target for non price profitability improvements, with $330 million realized during 2006. While more remains to be done in 2007, we have made substantial progress toward achieving the objectives announced at the outset of the Plan in July 2005. Results of Operations Industry segment operating profits are used by International Papers management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management believes that this measure allows a better understanding of trends in costs, operating efficiencies, prices and volumes. Industry segment operating profits are defined as earnings before taxes and minority interest, interest expense, corporate items and corporate special items. Industry segment operating profits are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a non GAAP financial measure, and are not GAAP alternatives to net income or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. International Paper operates in six segments: Printing Papers, Industrial Packaging, Consumer Packaging, Distribution, Forest Products and Specialty Businesses and Other. The following table shows the components of net earnings (loss) for each of the last three years: In millions 2006 2005 2004 Industry segment operating profits $ 2,074 $ 1,622 $ 1,703 Corporate items, net (746 ) (607 ) (477 ) Corporate special items* 2,373 (134 ) (141 ) Interest expense, net (521 ) (595 ) (712 ) Minority interest (9 ) (9 ) (21 ) Income tax (provision) benefit (1,889 ) 407 (114 ) Discontinued operations (232 ) 416 (273 ) Net earnings (loss) $ 1,050 $ 1,100 $ (35 ) * Corporate special items include gains on Transformation Plan forestland sales, goodwill impairment charges, restructuring and other charges, net losses on sales and impairments of businesses, insurance recoveries and reversals of reserves no longer required. 14 Industry segment operating profits of $2.1 billion were $452 million higher in 2006 than in 2005 due principally to the benefits from higher average prices ($476 million), higher sales volumes ($143 million), and cost reduction initiatives, improved operating performance and a more favorable product mix ($187 million), which more than offset the impacts of higher energy and raw material costs ($101 million), lower earnings from land sales ($27 million), higher distribution costs ($113 million), reduced earnings due to the sale of the Coated and Supercalendered Papers business and loss of harvest income from our divested forestlands ($53 million), and other items ($60 million). Segment Operating Profits (in millions) The principal changes in operating profits by segment were as follows: Printing Papers profits of $677 million were $204 million higher as the benefits of higher average sales price realizations, improved manufacturing operations, reduced lack of order downtime and higher sales volumes more than offset the impacts of higher raw material and energy costs, higher freight costs and a $128 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the fixed assets at the Saillat, France mill. Industrial Packagings profits of $399 million were up $180 million as the impacts of improved sales price realizations, increased sales volumes, a more favorable mix, reduced market related downtime and strong mill performance were partially offset by the effects of higher raw material, freight and converting operating costs. Consumer Packagings profits of $131 million were $10 million higher due to higher sales volumes, improved average sales price realizations, reduced lack of order downtime and favorable mill operations, which were partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs, unfavorable product mix and lower profits in our Shorewood packaging business. Forest Products profits of $678 million were $43 million lower. Decreased harvest and recreational income and lower earnings from the Real Estate division, which principally sells higher and better use properties, were only partially offset by higher earnings from forestland sales and lower operating costs. Distributions profits of $128 million were $44 million higher due to the impact of higher sales volumes, improved average sales prices and lower operating expenses. Specialty Businesses and Others profits of $61 million were $57 million higher reflecting higher average sales prices and lower costs for Arizona Chemical. Corporate items, net, of $746 million of expense in 2006 were higher than the $607 million of expense in 2005 and $477 million of expense in 2004 due to higher pension expenses, benefits related expenses and supply chain initiative costs, partially offset by lower inventory related costs. Corporate special items, including gains on sales of forestlands, restructuring and other charges, losses on sales and impairments of businesses, impairments of goodwill, insurance recoveries and reversals of reserves no longer required, increased to a gain of $2.4 billion from an expense of $134 million in 2005 and an expense of $141 million in 2004. The increase in 2006 principally reflects $4.8 billion of gains on the sales of forestlands included in our Transformation Plan, partially offset by $1.4 billion of net charges related to the divestiture of certain operations, principally the U.S. Coated and Supercalendered Papers business, and $759 million of goodwill impairment charges. Interest expense, net, of $521 million in 2006 decreased from $595 million in 2005 and $712 million in 2004 reflecting lower average debt balances from repayments made under the Companys Transformation Plan and lower interest rates from debt refinancings and repayments. Additionally, the 2006 total includes a pre tax credit of $6 million for interest received from the Canadian government on refunds of prior year softwood lumber duties. Interest expense, net, in 2005 includes a pre tax credit of $43 million related to an agreement reached with the Internal Revenue Service concerning the Companys 1997 through 2000 federal income tax audits, and a pre tax credit of $11 million related to the collection of a note receivable from the 2001 sale of the Flexible Packaging business. 15 The 2006 income tax provision of $1.9 billion consists of $1.6 billion of deferred taxes (principally reflecting deferred taxes on the 2006 Transformation Plan forestland sales) and a $0.3 billion current tax provision. The tax provision also includes an $11 million charge related to 2006 special tax adjustment items. The $407 million benefit in 2005 included a $454 million tax benefit related to 2005 special tax adjustment items. The tax provision of $114 million in 2004 included $32 million of expense related to special items. See Income Taxes on page 19 for a further discussion of these items. Discontinued Operations In the first quarter of 2006, management determined that the future sale of the Kraft Papers business was in the best interest of the Companys shareholders. A definitive agreement to sell this business was signed during the second quarter. In the third quarter, International Paper completed the sale of its Brazilian Coated Papers business. During the fourth quarter, International Paper determined that the sales of its Beverage Packaging and Wood Products businesses were in the best interests of the shareholders. A definitive agreement to sell its Beverage Packaging business was announced during the quarter, and the Company announced two separate definitive agreements to sell 13 lumber mills and five wood products plants. During the 2005 third quarter, International Paper completed the sale of the Carter Holt Harvey Limited business. During 2004, International Paper completed the sale of its Weldwood of Canada Limited business in the fourth quarter. As a result of these actions, the operating results of these businesses and the associated gains/losses on the sales are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended December 31, 2006, International Paper generated $1.0 billion of cash flow from continuing operations, compared with $1.2 billion in 2005. The 2006 amount is net of a $1.0 billion voluntary pension plan cash contribution. Capital spending from continuing operations for the year totaled $1.0 billion, or 87% of depreciation and amortization expense. We repaid approximately $5.2 billion of debt during the year, including various higher coupon rate debt, that will result in lower interest charges in future years. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $3.0 billion of unused, committed credit facilities that we believe are adequate to meet future short term liquidity requirements. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our focus in 2007 will be to continue to maximize our financial flexibility and preserve liquidity. Capital spending for 2007 is targeted at $1.2 billion, or about equal to estimated depreciation and amortization. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Accounting Estimates Accounting policies that may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and financial position, and that can require judgments by management in their application, include accounting for contingent liabilities, impairments of long lived assets and goodwill, pensions and postretirement benefit obligations and income taxes. In recent years, the assumption estimates used for pensions have resulted in increases in reported pension charges. Pension expenses for our U.S. plans increased to $377 million in 2006 from $243 million in 2005 due principally to a change in the mortality assumption and the use of a lower assumed discount rate. A decrease of approximately $182 million is expected in 2007, reflecting earnings on the $1.0 billion voluntary cash contribution made by the Company in 2006 and an increase in the assumed discount rate. Our pension funding policy continues to be, at a minimum, to fully fund actuarially determined costs, generally equal to the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Unless changes are made to our funding policy, it is unlikely that any contributions to our U.S. qualified plan will be required in 2007. Legal An analysis of significant litigation activity is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
