Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. A discussion of the Companys Transformation Plan (the Transformation Plan) to concentrate on two key global platform businesses, Uncoated Papers (including Distribution) and Packaging, can be found on page 34 of Item 7. From 2003 through 2007, International Papers capital expenditures approximated $5.5 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2007 was approximately $1.3 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion in 2008. You can find more information about capital expenditures on pages 29 and 30 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions, exchanges and joint ventures can be found on pages 30 and 31 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 19 through 22 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth on pages 43 and 44 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions, exchanges and joint ventures can be found on pages 30 and 31 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 19 through 22 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth on pages 43 and 44 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Companys manufacturing capacities in Appendix II on page A 3. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging and graphic arts supplies. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally. DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS The Companys principal products are described on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) (Unaudited) 2007 2006 2005 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 3,788 3,973 3,837 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,448 1,455 1,419 Brazil Uncoated Papers 794 477 447 Asia Uncoated Papers 24 18 13 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 6,054 5,923 5,716 Coated Papers (3) 1,168 1,996 Market Pulp (4) 1,402 1,124 1,291 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,578 3,628 3,578 European Container (Boxes) 1,173 1,267 1,073 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 641 525 421 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,392 5,420 5,072 Containerboard 1,776 1,816 1,937 Bleached Packaging Board 2,010 1,503 (5) 1,264 Coated Bristols 408 410 411 Saturated and Bleached Kraft Papers 240 232 242 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Sold in the third quarter of 2006. International Paper has a 10% continuing interest in the owning entity. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. (5) Includes two months of sales for International Paper & Sun Cartonboard Co., Ltd. in which International Paper acquired a 50% interest in the fourth quarter of 2006. 2 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $24 million in 2007, $45 million in 2006, and $63 million in 2005. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 39 and 40 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 51,500 employees, 33,100 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 20,600 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 12,800 employees. Approximately 10,500 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2007, the Company reached a four year agreement (the USW Agreement) with the United Steelworkers of America that lays a new framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. The USW Agreement provides for the renewal of labor agreements at pulp, paper and packaging mill locations throughout the four year period. Pursuant to the USW Agreement, labor agreements at the Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama paper mills were renewed in 2007. During 2008, labor agreements are scheduled to expire and renew, under the terms of the USW Agreement, at the Texarkana, Texas; Courtland, Alabama; Pineville, Louisiana; and Prattville, Alabama mill locations. During 2007, 17 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, distribution, consumer packaging and wood products operations. During 2008, 18 non mill labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 18 non paper mill operations, plus eight non mill contracts are carrying over from 2007. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 58, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci previously served as president during 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 62, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. John N. Balboni, 59, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. Michael J. Balduino, 57, senior vice president since 2000, responsible for consumer products converting businesses and president Shorewood Packaging 3 Table of Contents Corp. since 2004. Mr. Balduino previously served as the Companys senior vice president sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 56, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Mr. Brafford previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 59, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1980. C. Cato Ealy, 51, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 61, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Mr. Gestrich previously served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Thomas G. Kadien, 51, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 47, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005, and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Ms. Laschinger is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 46, senior vice president and chief financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007, and as president of the Companys former Canadian pulp and wood products business from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 55, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004 and as president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 48, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000 to 2005. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 52, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer and a member of its board of directors. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 52, vice president finance and controller since 2003. Mr. Grillet previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Terri L. Herrington, 52, vice president internal audit since November 2007. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007, and as group development leader in internal audit for BP p.l.c. from 2000 to 2003. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. Mark S. Sutton, 46, vice president supply chain since June 2007. Mr. Sutton previously served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007, and as vice president and general manager European Corrugated Packaging Operations from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. 4 Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 Table of Contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. This may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS OF MANUFACTURING. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 Table of Contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ABILITY TO REALIZE NON PRICE PROFIT IMPROVEMENT. The Company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned or managed approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 250,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on pages 20 and 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) (Unaudited) 2007 2006 2005 Printing Papers (In thousands of tons) U.S. Uncoated Papers and Bristols 3,788 3,973 3,837 Europe & Russia Uncoated Papers and Bristols 1,448 1,455 1,419 Brazil Uncoated Papers 794 477 447 Asia Uncoated Papers 24 18 13 Uncoated Papers and Bristols 6,054 5,923 5,716 Coated Papers (3) 1,168 1,996 Market Pulp (4) 1,402 1,124 1,291 Packaging (In thousands of tons) Container of the Americas 3,578 3,628 3,578 European Container (Boxes) 1,173 1,267 1,073 Other Industrial and Consumer Packaging 641 525 421 Industrial and Consumer Packaging 5,392 5,420 5,072 Containerboard 1,776 1,816 1,937 Bleached Packaging Board 2,010 1,503 (5) 1,264 Coated Bristols 408 410 411 Saturated and Bleached Kraft Papers 240 232 242 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Sold in the third quarter of 2006. International Paper has a 10% continuing interest in the owning entity. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. (5) Includes two months of sales for International Paper & Sun Cartonboard Co., Ltd. in which International Paper acquired a 50% interest in the fourth quarter of 2006. 2 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center at Loveland, Ohio, with smaller facilities in Savannah, Georgia, and several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has a 1/3 interest in ArborGen, LLC, a joint venture with certain other forest products and biotechnology companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $24 million in 2007, $45 million in 2006, and $63 million in 2005. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Information concerning the effects of the Companys compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted relating to environmental protection matters is set forth on pages 39 and 40 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 51,500 employees, 33,100 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 20,600 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 12,800 employees. Approximately 10,500 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2007, the Company reached a four year agreement (the USW Agreement) with the United Steelworkers of America that lays a new framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. The USW Agreement provides for the renewal of labor agreements at pulp, paper and packaging mill locations throughout the four year period. Pursuant to the USW Agreement, labor agreements at the Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama paper mills were renewed in 2007. During 2008, labor agreements are scheduled to expire and renew, under the terms of the USW Agreement, at the Texarkana, Texas; Courtland, Alabama; Pineville, Louisiana; and Prattville, Alabama mill locations. During 2007, 17 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, distribution, consumer packaging and wood products operations. During 2008, 18 non mill labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 18 non paper mill operations, plus eight non mill contracts are carrying over from 2007. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 58, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci previously served as president during 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 62, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. John N. Balboni, 59, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. Michael J. Balduino, 57, senior vice president since 2000, responsible for consumer products converting businesses and president Shorewood Packaging 3 Table of Contents Corp. since 2004. Mr. Balduino previously served as the Companys senior vice president sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 56, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Mr. Brafford previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 59, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1980. C. Cato Ealy, 51, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 61, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Mr. Gestrich previously served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Thomas G. Kadien, 51, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 47, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005, and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Ms. Laschinger is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 46, senior vice president and chief financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007, and as president of the Companys former Canadian pulp and wood products business from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 55, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004 and as president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 48, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000 to 2005. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 52, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer and a member of its board of directors. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 52, vice president finance and controller since 2003. Mr. Grillet previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Terri L. Herrington, 52, vice president internal audit since November 2007. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007, and as group development leader in internal audit for BP p.l.c. from 2000 to 2003. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. Mark S. Sutton, 46, vice president supply chain since June 2007. Mr. Sutton previously served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007, and as vice president and general manager European Corrugated Packaging Operations from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. 4 Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 Table of Contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. This may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS OF MANUFACTURING. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 Table of Contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ABILITY TO REALIZE NON PRICE PROFIT IMPROVEMENT. The Company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned or managed approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 250,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on pages 20 and 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 51,500 employees, 33,100 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 20,600 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 12,800 employees. Approximately 10,500 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers under individual location contracts. During 2007, the Company reached a four year agreement (the USW Agreement) with the United Steelworkers of America that lays a new framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. The USW Agreement provides for the renewal of labor agreements at pulp, paper and packaging mill locations throughout the four year period. Pursuant to the USW Agreement, labor agreements at the Georgetown, South Carolina; Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Riverdale, Alabama paper mills were renewed in 2007. During 2008, labor agreements are scheduled to expire and renew, under the terms of the USW Agreement, at the Texarkana, Texas; Courtland, Alabama; Pineville, Louisiana; and Prattville, Alabama mill locations. During 2007, 17 labor agreements were settled in non paper mill operations. Settlements included paper converting, distribution, consumer packaging and wood products operations. During 2008, 18 non mill labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 18 non paper mill operations, plus eight non mill contracts are carrying over from 2007. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 58, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci previously served as president during 2003, and executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. Newland A. Lesko, 62, executive vice president manufacturing and technology since 2003. Mr. Lesko previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Lesko joined International Paper in 1967. John N. Balboni, 59, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni previously served as vice president and chief information officer from 2003 to 2005, and vice president ebusiness from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. Michael J. Balduino, 57, senior vice president since 2000, responsible for consumer products converting businesses and president Shorewood Packaging 3 Table of Contents Corp. since 2004. Mr. Balduino previously served as the Companys senior vice president sales and marketing from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Balduino joined International Paper in 1992. H. Wayne Brafford, 56, senior vice president printing and communications papers since 2005. Mr. Brafford previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2003, and as vice president and general manager converting, specialty and pulp from 1999 to 2003. Mr. Brafford joined International Paper in 1975. Jerome N. Carter, 59, senior vice president human resources since 1999. Since 2005, Mr. Carter is also responsible for overseeing the communications function of the Company. Mr. Carter joined International Paper in 1980. C. Cato Ealy, 51, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy previously served as vice president corporate development from 1996 to 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Thomas E. Gestrich, 61, senior vice president and president IP Asia since 2005. Mr. Gestrich previously served as senior vice president consumer packaging from 2001 to 2005. Mr. Gestrich joined International Paper in 1990. Thomas G. Kadien, 51, senior vice president and president xpedx since 2005. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president Europe from 2003 to 2005, and as vice president commercial printing and imaging papers from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mary A. Laschinger, 47, senior vice president since 2007 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since 2005. Ms. Laschinger previously served as vice president wood products from 2004 to 2005, and as vice president pulp from 2001 to 2004. Ms. Laschinger is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 46, senior vice president and chief financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007, and as president of the Companys former Canadian pulp and wood products business from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 55, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP do Brasil since 2004. Previously, Mr. Pacheco served as senior vice president IP do Brasil from 2003 to 2004 and as president IP Latin America from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 48, senior vice president IP packaging solutions since 2005. She previously served as vice president container of the Americas from 2000 to 2005. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 52, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations. From 1998 to 2003, she served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of Owens Corning and in addition, from 2000 to 2003, as chief restructuring officer and a member of its board of directors. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Robert J. Grillet, 52, vice president finance and controller since 2003. Mr. Grillet previously served as group senior vice president xpedx from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Grillet joined International Paper in 1976. Terri L. Herrington, 52, vice president internal audit since November 2007. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007, and as group development leader in internal audit for BP p.l.c. from 2000 to 2003. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. Mark S. Sutton, 46, vice president supply chain since June 2007. Mr. Sutton previously served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007, and as vice president and general manager European Corrugated Packaging Operations from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. RAW MATERIALS For information on the sources and availability of raw materials essential to our business, see Item 2. Properties. 4 Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 Table of Contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. This may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS OF MANUFACTURING. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 Table of Contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ABILITY TO REALIZE NON PRICE PROFIT IMPROVEMENT. The Company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned or managed approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 250,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on pages 20 and 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature, may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Below, we have listed specific risks and uncertainties that you should carefully read and consider. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 Table of Contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. This may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS OF MANUFACTURING. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 Table of Contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ABILITY TO REALIZE NON PRICE PROFIT IMPROVEMENT. The Company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned or managed approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 250,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on pages 20 and 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on page 65 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL AND ENERGY. We rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. CHANGES IN TRANSPORTATION AVAILABILITY OR COSTS. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. While we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. COMPETITION. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. PRODUCT MIX. Our results may be affected by a change in the Companys sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. PRICING. Our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and or appropriate. Delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, Asia and North Africa. Changes in industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 Table of Contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. This may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. Our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. CHANGES IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. We are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. From time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS UNANTICIPATED EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the disclosure in Item 3. Legal Proceedings contains managements current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANYS OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS OF MANUFACTURING. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 Table of Contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ABILITY TO REALIZE NON PRICE PROFIT IMPROVEMENT. The Company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. There can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned or managed approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in the United States, approximately 250,000 acres in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). During 2006, in conjunction with the Companys Transformation Plan, approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States were sold under various agreements, principally in October and November, for proceeds totaling approximately $6.6 billion of cash and notes. A further discussion of these sales transactions can be found on pages 20 and 21 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on page 65 of 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY International Papers operating results in 2007 benefited from significantly higher paper and packaging price realizations. Sales volumes were slightly higher, with growth in overseas markets partially offset by lower volumes in North America as we continued to balance our production with our customers demand. Operationally, our pulp and paper and containerboard mills ran very well in 2007. However, input costs for wood, energy and transportation costs were all well above 2006 levels. In our Forest Products business, earnings decreased 31% reflecting a sharp decline in harvest income and a smaller drop in forestland and real estate sales, both reflecting our forestland divestitures in 2006. Interest expense decreased over 40%, principally due to lower debt balances and interest rates from debt repayments and refinancings. Looking forward to the first quarter of 2008, we expect demand for North American printing papers and packaging to remain steady. However, if the economic downturn in 2008 is greater than expected, this could have a negative impact on sales volumes and earnings. Some slight increases in paper and packaging price realizations are expected as we implement our announced price increases. However, first quarter earnings will reflect increased planned maintenance expenses and continued escalation of wood, energy and transportation costs. As a result, excluding the impact of projected reduced earnings from land sales and the addition of equity earnings contributions from our recent investment in Ilim Holding S.A. in Russia, we expect 2008 first quarter earnings to be lower than in the 2007 fourth quarter. Results of Operations Industry segment operating profits are used by International Papers management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management believes that this measure allows a better understanding of trends in costs, operating efficiencies, prices and volumes. Industry segment operating profits are defined as earnings before taxes and minority interest, interest expense, corporate items and corporate special items. Industry segment operating profits are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a non GAAP financial measure, and are not GAAP alternatives to net earnings or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. International Paper operates in six segments: Printing Papers, Industrial Packaging, Consumer Packaging, Distribution, Forest Products, and Specialty Businesses and Other. The following table shows the components of net earnings for each of the last three years: In millions 2007 2006 2005 Industry segment operating profits $ 2,423 $ 2,074 $ 1,622 Corporate items, net (732 ) (746 ) (607 ) Corporate special items* 241 2,373 (134 ) Interest expense, net (297 ) (521 ) (595 ) Minority interest (5 ) (9 ) (9 ) Income tax benefit (provision) (415 ) (1,889 ) 407 Discontinued operations (47 ) (232 ) 416 Net earnings $ 1,168 $ 1,050 $ 1,100 * Corporate special items include restructuring and other charges, net (gains) losses on sales and impairments of businesses, gains on Transformation Plan forestland sales, goodwill impairment charges, insurance recoveries and reversals of reserves no longer required. Industry segment operating profits of $2.4 billion were $349 million higher in 2007 than in 2006 due principally to the benefits from higher average price realizations ($461 million), the net impact of cost reduction initiatives, improved operating performance and a more favorable mix of products sold ($304 million), higher sales volumes ($17 million), lower special item costs ($115 million) and other items ($4 million). These benefits more than offset the impacts of higher energy, raw material and freight costs ($205 million), higher costs for planned mill maintenance outages ($48 million), lower earnings from land sales ($101 million), costs at the Pensacola mill associated with the conversion of a machine to the production of linerboard ($52 million) and reduced earnings due to net acquisitions and divestitures ($146 million). 14 Table of Contents The principal changes in 2007 operating profit by segment were as follows: Printing Papers profits of $1.1 billion were $465 million higher as the benefits of higher average sales price realizations and improved manufacturing operating costs more than offset the impacts of higher raw material and energy costs, higher freight costs, and slightly lower sales volumes. Additionally, 2006 results included a $128 million charge to write down the assets of the Saillat, France mill to their estimated fair value. Industrial Packagings profits of $501 million were up $102 million as the impacts of higher sales price realizations, increased sales volumes, a more favorable mix of products sold, and strong mill and converting production performance were only partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs and costs associated with the conversion of the paper machine at the Pensacola mill to lightweight linerboard production. Consumer Packagings profits of $198 million were $26 million higher reflecting improved average sales price realizations, slightly higher sales volumes, favorable mill operations, and the full year earnings impact of International Paper & Sun Cartonboard Co., Ltd. which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2006. These benefits were partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs and an unfavorable mix of products sold. Distributions profits of $146 million were $18 million higher in 2007 due to the impact of record sales volumes and slightly better average sales margins. Forest Products profits of $471 million were down $207 million. This reflects lower forestland and real estate sales and harvest and recreational income due to the 5.6 million acres of forestland sold in 2006 as part of the Companys Transformation Plan that significantly reduced the Companys forestland acreage. Specialty Businesses and Others profits of $6 million were $55 million lower reflecting the divestiture of the Arizona Chemical business in the first quarter of 2007. Corporate items, net, of $732 million of expense in 2007 were lower than the $746 million of expense in 2006 as lower pension expenses more than offset higher medical, supply chain initiative and LIFO inventory costs. The increase in 2006 versus $607 million of expense in 2005 reflects higher pension, benefit related and supply chain initiative costs, partially offset by lower LIFO inventory costs. Corporate special items, including restructuring and other charges and net (gains) losses on sales and impairments of businesses, were a gain of $241 million in 2007 compared with a gain of $2.4 billion in 2006 and an expense of $134 million in 2005. The large gain in 2006 includes $4.8 billion from the sales of forestlands included in our Transformation Plan, partially offset by $1.4 billion of net charges related to the divestiture of certain operations and $759 million of goodwill impairment charges. Interest expense, net, of $297 million in 2007 decreased from $521 million in 2006 and $595 million in 2005 reflecting lower average debt balances and lower interest rates from debt refinancings and repayments made under the Companys Transformation Plan. The 2007 income tax provision of $415 million includes a $41 million benefit related to 2007 special tax adjustment items. The 2006 income tax provision of $1.9 billion consists of $1.6 billion of deferred taxes (principally reflecting deferred taxes on the 2006 Transformation Plan forestland sales) and a $0.3 billion current tax provision, and includes an $11 million charge related to 2006 special tax adjustment items. The $407 million benefit in 2005 includes a $454 million tax benefit related to 2005 special tax adjustment items. Excluding special items, taxes as a percent of pre tax earnings increased to 30% in 2007 and 29% in 2006 from 20% in 2005 reflecting a higher proportion of earnings in higher tax rate jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its Wood Products, Beverage Packaging and Kraft Papers operations. In the third quarter of 2006, International Paper completed the sale of its Brazilian Coated Papers business. During the 2005 third quarter, International Paper completed the sale of the Carter Holt Harvey Limited business. During 2004, International Paper completed the sale of its Weldwood of Canada Limited business in the fourth quarter. 15 Table of Contents As a result of these actions, the operating results of these businesses and the associated gains/losses on the sales are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended December 31, 2007, International Paper generated $1.9 billion of cash flow from continuing operations, compared with $1.0 billion in 2006. The 2006 amount is net of a $1.0 billion voluntary pension plan cash contribution. Capital spending from continuing operations for 2007 totaled $1.3 billion, or 119% of depreciation and amortization expense. Cash proceeds from divestitures totaled $1.7 billion, with $300 million used for acquisitions and $600 million invested in a 50% equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. in Russia. We repaid approximately $900 million of debt during the year. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $2.5 billion of unused, committed credit facilities that we believe are adequate to meet future short term liquidity requirements. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. Our focus in 2008 will be to continue to maximize our financial flexibility to facilitate access to capital markets on favorable terms. Capital spending for 2008 is targeted at $1.1 billion, or about equal to depreciation and amortization. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Accounting Estimates Accounting policies that may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and financial position, and that can require judgments by management in their application, include accounting for contingent liabilities, impairments of long lived assets and goodwill, pensions and postretirement benefit obligations and income taxes. Pension expenses for our U.S. plans decreased to $210 million in 2007 from $377 million in 2006 reflecting a full year of earnings on a $1.0 billion contribution made to the plan during the fourth quarter of 2006, lower amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses, and an increase in the assumed discount rate to 5.75% in 2007 from 5.50% in 2006. An additional decrease to approximately $114 million is expected in 2008, reflecting an increase in the assumed discount rate to 6.20% and a further reduction of amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses. Our pension funding policy continues to be, at a minimum, to fully fund actuarially determined costs, generally equal to the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Unless changes are made to our funding policy, it is unlikely that any contributions to our U.S. qualified plan will be required in 2008. Legal An analysis of significant litigation activity is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
