Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Companys 50% equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate reportable industry segment. From 2006 through 2010, International Papers capital expenditures approximated $4.7 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2010 was approximately $775 million and is expected to be approximately $1.2 to $1.3 billion in 2011. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 34 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 34 and 35 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 89 through 91 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 34 and 35 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 89 through 91 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Companys manufacturing capacities on page A 4 of Appendix II. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging and graphic arts supplies. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally. DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS The Companys principal products are described on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 Table of Contents SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) In thousands of short tons 2010 2009 2008 Industrial Packaging Corrugated Packaging (3) 7,525 7,313 5,298 Containerboard (3) 2,458 2,258 2,305 Recycling (3) 2,486 2,280 966 Saturated Kraft 176 126 170 Bleached Kraft 85 72 82 European Industrial Packaging 1,040 1,046 1,123 Asian Box (4) 307 149 137 Asian Distribution 360 465 431 Industrial Packaging 14,437 13,709 10,512 Printing Papers U.S. Uncoated Papers 2,695 2,882 3,397 European and Russian Uncoated Papers 1,235 1,336 1,461 Brazilian Uncoated Papers 1,081 1,007 853 Asian Uncoated Papers 96 81 27 Uncoated Papers 5,107 5,306 5,738 Market Pulp (5) 1,422 1,524 1,604 Consumer Packaging U.S. Coated Paperboard 1,398 1,242 1,591 European Coated Paperboard 351 354 311 Asian Coated Paperboard 870 859 550 Other Consumer Packaging 174 169 178 Consumer Packaging 2,793 2,624 2,630 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Includes Weyerhaeuser Companys Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling (CBPR) business volumes from date of acquisition in August 2008. (4) Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010. (5) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $12 million in 2010, $13 million in 2009 and $22 million in 2008. The decrease in cost beginning in 2009 reflects cost cutting measures. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of $62 million was spent in 2010 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2011 for similar capital projects. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that over the next 12 18 months additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper. In June 2010, the EPA published four inter related proposed rules commonly and collectively referred to as Boiler MACT. As proposed, these rules require owners of specified boilers to meet very strict air emission standards for certain substances. The promulgation of these rules has been subject to litigation among various parties and the EPA over a period of several years. In late December 2010, the EPA filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to further extend the time to promulgate the Boiler MACT rules for an additional 15 months to take into account the voluminous amount of new data EPA received in the comment period. On January 20, 2011, the Court denied EPAs request and granted only one additional month (until February 21, 2011) to complete the rulemaking. On that same day, EPA announced in a press release that it will issue rules by the court imposed deadline but indicated that the rules will be significantly different than previously proposed. Given EPAs press release, International Paper cannot speculate on what the rules will require, or their impact on the amount or timing of any related future capital expenditures. The amount we will spend for environmental control projects in future years will also depend on other new laws and regulations and changes in rules that are likely to be promulgated, such as NAAQSs. Recognizing these many uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and other regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control expenditures is approximately $300 million for 2012 and approximately $350 million for 2013. When regulatory requirements regarding 4 Table of Contents Boiler MACT become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the Companys environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will need time to assess fully the potential impacts on our Company before we will be able to provide a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures. CLIMATE CHANGE Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. These actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments. While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to underdeveloped nations. Three countries where we have operations, Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in the future that may have a material effect on our operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity around the post 2012 climate control regime, it is not possible at this time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Papers operations. Under the European Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper had two sites covered by the EUETS in 2010. While these measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2010, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2011, they may have a material adverse effect in the future. The U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol nor have efforts in the U.S. Congress to legislate the control of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions been successful. To date, the activity in the U.S. has been spearheaded by the U.S. EPA and, to some extent, by the states. Pursuant to its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule promulgated in 2009, EPA began a process to collect data on emitters of greater than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas per year. Twenty of our U.S. facilities are covered by and will make reports as required under this new rule. We do not believe that the reporting rule will have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the EPA has indicated that it will propose New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for various industry sectors which will limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. However, we anticipate that, at some future time, pulp and paper sources will be subject to new NSPS rules. It is uncertain what impacts, if any, future NSPS will have on International Papers operations. Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to Californias GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take effect until 2012. Until the rules are finalized, it is unknown whether there will be any adverse impact on our California facility. It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect adverse effects on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material adverse effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations. 5 Table of Contents In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available at http://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 59,500 employees, 36,120 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 23,460 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,920 employees. Approximately 10,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW). International Paper and the USW entered into the 2007 Mill Agreement in July 2007, which established the framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2009, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2007 Mill Agreement the four mills we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008. In April 2008, we entered into the 2008 Converting Agreement, which similarly establishes the framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 32 of our converting facilities. In March 2010, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2008 Converting Agreement the 20 facilities we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008. These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, active medical benefits, successorship, employment security and health and safety. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the 2007 Mill Agreement and 2008 Converting Agreement, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements. During 2010, labor agreements for four mills expired. Three of the four, Port Hueneme, California, Red River, Louisiana and Riegelwood, North Carolina are covered by the 2007 Mill Agreement. Local agreements at Port Hueneme and Red River renewed with the same terms. Minor changes were negotiated at Courtland, Alabama (non exempt union not covered by the 2007 Mill Agreement) and Riegelwood. During 2011, labor agreements that are scheduled to expire at the mills in Georgetown, South Carolina, Riverdale (Selma), Alabama and Vicksburg, Mississippi will automatically renew under the terms of the 2007 Mill Agreement if new agreements are not reached. With regard to converting facilities, during 2010 International Paper negotiated six contracts covering 13 locations represented by IBT District Council 2. Labor agreements were renewed at Omaha, Nebraska, Springhill, Louisiana, Butler, Indiana, Forest Park, Georgia, Three Rivers, Michigan and Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania pursuant to the 2008 Converting Agreement. Labor agreements were negotiated at two additional converting facilities covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement (Magnolia, Mississippi and Bellmawr, New Jersey). Labor agreements also were reached at seven additional converting, distribution and consumer packaging locations that were not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement. A one year extension was negotiated at Louisville, Kentucky. Additionally during 2010, International Paper announced the shutdown of facilities in Jonesboro, Arkansas, Newport News, Virginia, Spartanburg, North Carolina and Bellevue, Washington. Effects of the closings were bargained where applicable. During 2011, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 converting, distribution and consumer packaging facilities. Seven of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the 2008 Converting Agreement if new agreements are not reached. Thirteen of these agreements are not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 61, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 62, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. 6 Table of Contents C. Cato Ealy, 54, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Tommy S. Joseph, 51, senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president technology from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983. Thomas G. Kadien, 54, senior vice president consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president xpedx from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Paul J. Karre, 58, senior vice president human resources and communications since May 2009. Mr. Karre previously served as vice president human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974. Mary A. Laschinger, 50, senior vice president since 2007 and president xpedx since January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 49, senior vice president and chief financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 58, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 51, senior vice president industrial packaging since 2008. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 55, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations since 2003. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Mark S. Sutton, 49, senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas since January 2010. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Terri L. Herrington, 55, vice president finance and controller since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice president internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Companys 2006 Transformation Plan is presented in Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 71 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 Table of Contents SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2) In thousands of short tons 2010 2009 2008 Industrial Packaging Corrugated Packaging (3) 7,525 7,313 5,298 Containerboard (3) 2,458 2,258 2,305 Recycling (3) 2,486 2,280 966 Saturated Kraft 176 126 170 Bleached Kraft 85 72 82 European Industrial Packaging 1,040 1,046 1,123 Asian Box (4) 307 149 137 Asian Distribution 360 465 431 Industrial Packaging 14,437 13,709 10,512 Printing Papers U.S. Uncoated Papers 2,695 2,882 3,397 European and Russian Uncoated Papers 1,235 1,336 1,461 Brazilian Uncoated Papers 1,081 1,007 853 Asian Uncoated Papers 96 81 27 Uncoated Papers 5,107 5,306 5,738 Market Pulp (5) 1,422 1,524 1,604 Consumer Packaging U.S. Coated Paperboard 1,398 1,242 1,591 European Coated Paperboard 351 354 311 Asian Coated Paperboard 870 859 550 Other Consumer Packaging 174 169 178 Consumer Packaging 2,793 2,624 2,630 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. (2) Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations. (3) Includes Weyerhaeuser Companys Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling (CBPR) business volumes from date of acquisition in August 2008. (4) Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010. (5) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $12 million in 2010, $13 million in 2009 and $22 million in 2008. The decrease in cost beginning in 2009 reflects cost cutting measures. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of $62 million was spent in 2010 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2011 for similar capital projects. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that over the next 12 18 months additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper. In June 2010, the EPA published four inter related proposed rules commonly and collectively referred to as Boiler MACT. As proposed, these rules require owners of specified boilers to meet very strict air emission standards for certain substances. The promulgation of these rules has been subject to litigation among various parties and the EPA over a period of several years. In late December 2010, the EPA filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to further extend the time to promulgate the Boiler MACT rules for an additional 15 months to take into account the voluminous amount of new data EPA received in the comment period. On January 20, 2011, the Court denied EPAs request and granted only one additional month (until February 21, 2011) to complete the rulemaking. On that same day, EPA announced in a press release that it will issue rules by the court imposed deadline but indicated that the rules will be significantly different than previously proposed. Given EPAs press release, International Paper cannot speculate on what the rules will require, or their impact on the amount or timing of any related future capital expenditures. The amount we will spend for environmental control projects in future years will also depend on other new laws and regulations and changes in rules that are likely to be promulgated, such as NAAQSs. Recognizing these many uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and other regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control expenditures is approximately $300 million for 2012 and approximately $350 million for 2013. When regulatory requirements regarding 4 Table of Contents Boiler MACT become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the Companys environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will need time to assess fully the potential impacts on our Company before we will be able to provide a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures. CLIMATE CHANGE Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. These actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments. While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to underdeveloped nations. Three countries where we have operations, Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in the future that may have a material effect on our operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity around the post 2012 climate control regime, it is not possible at this time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Papers operations. Under the European Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper had two sites covered by the EUETS in 2010. While these measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2010, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2011, they may have a material adverse effect in the future. The U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol nor have efforts in the U.S. Congress to legislate the control of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions been successful. To date, the activity in the U.S. has been spearheaded by the U.S. EPA and, to some extent, by the states. Pursuant to its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule promulgated in 2009, EPA began a process to collect data on emitters of greater than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas per year. Twenty of our U.S. facilities are covered by and will make reports as required under this new rule. We do not believe that the reporting rule will have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the EPA has indicated that it will propose New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for various industry sectors which will limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. However, we anticipate that, at some future time, pulp and paper sources will be subject to new NSPS rules. It is uncertain what impacts, if any, future NSPS will have on International Papers operations. Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to Californias GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take effect until 2012. Until the rules are finalized, it is unknown whether there will be any adverse impact on our California facility. It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect adverse effects on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material adverse effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations. 5 Table of Contents In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available at http://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 59,500 employees, 36,120 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 23,460 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,920 employees. Approximately 10,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW). International Paper and the USW entered into the 2007 Mill Agreement in July 2007, which established the framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2009, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2007 Mill Agreement the four mills we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008. In April 2008, we entered into the 2008 Converting Agreement, which similarly establishes the framework for bargaining future local labor contracts at 32 of our converting facilities. In March 2010, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2008 Converting Agreement the 20 facilities we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008. These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, active medical benefits, successorship, employment security and health and safety. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the 2007 Mill Agreement and 2008 Converting Agreement, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements. During 2010, labor agreements for four mills expired. Three of the four, Port Hueneme, California, Red River, Louisiana and Riegelwood, North Carolina are covered by the 2007 Mill Agreement. Local agreements at Port Hueneme and Red River renewed with the same terms. Minor changes were negotiated at Courtland, Alabama (non exempt union not covered by the 2007 Mill Agreement) and Riegelwood. During 2011, labor agreements that are scheduled to expire at the mills in Georgetown, South Carolina, Riverdale (Selma), Alabama and Vicksburg, Mississippi will automatically renew under the terms of the 2007 Mill Agreement if new agreements are not reached. With regard to converting facilities, during 2010 International Paper negotiated six contracts covering 13 locations represented by IBT District Council 2. Labor agreements were renewed at Omaha, Nebraska, Springhill, Louisiana, Butler, Indiana, Forest Park, Georgia, Three Rivers, Michigan and Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania pursuant to the 2008 Converting Agreement. Labor agreements were negotiated at two additional converting facilities covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement (Magnolia, Mississippi and Bellmawr, New Jersey). Labor agreements also were reached at seven additional converting, distribution and consumer packaging locations that were not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement. A one year extension was negotiated at Louisville, Kentucky. Additionally during 2010, International Paper announced the shutdown of facilities in Jonesboro, Arkansas, Newport News, Virginia, Spartanburg, North Carolina and Bellevue, Washington. Effects of the closings were bargained where applicable. During 2011, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 converting, distribution and consumer packaging facilities. Seven of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the 2008 Converting Agreement if new agreements are not reached. Thirteen of these agreements are not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 61, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 62, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. 6 Table of Contents C. Cato Ealy, 54, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Tommy S. Joseph, 51, senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president technology from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983. Thomas G. Kadien, 54, senior vice president consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president xpedx from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Paul J. Karre, 58, senior vice president human resources and communications since May 2009. Mr. Karre previously served as vice president human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974. Mary A. Laschinger, 50, senior vice president since 2007 and president xpedx since January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 49, senior vice president and chief financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 58, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 51, senior vice president industrial packaging since 2008. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Maura A. Smith, 55, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations since 2003. Ms. Smith joined International Paper in 2003. Mark S. Sutton, 49, senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas since January 2010. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Terri L. Herrington, 55, vice president finance and controller since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice president internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Companys 2006 Transformation Plan is presented in Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 71 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature may constitute forward looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. Such statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors 7 Table of Contents which could cause actual results to differ relate to: (i) increases in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the impairment of financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care costs; (iv) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; and (v) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities and risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K (particularly in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, ENERGY AND TRANSPORTATION COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third party companies that transport our goods. The market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. In addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE EXPERIENCE BOTH ECONOMIC CYCLICALITY AND CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICES OF, AND THE DEMAND FOR, OUR PRODUCTS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. In addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber based products and non fiber substitutes. Consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. COMPETITION IN THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNATIONALLY COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Product or pricing strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS ADVERSE DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. General economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. In addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE 8 Table of Contents MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our Companys ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, and increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. Similarly, we are subject to the risk that one of the banks that has issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with sales of our forestlands is downgraded below a required rating. If this were to happen, it may subject the Company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter of credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. THE IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty may adversely affect our access to capital, liquidity position, future business and results of operations. OUR PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS FACTORS WHICH COULD CAUSE THESE COSTS TO CHANGE. We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all U.S. salaried employees hired prior to July 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. We provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. OUR PENSION PLANS ARE CURRENTLY UNDERFUNDED, AND OVER TIME WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAKE CASH PAYMENTS TO THE PLANS, REDUCING THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR OUR BUSINESS. We record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits, at December 31, 2010 was $1.5 billion. The amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and non U.S. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, Boiler MACT and National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation 9 Table of Contents against us cannot be determined with certainty. Although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS AT ONE OF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. SEVERAL OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED BY JOINT VENTURES THAT WE CANNOT OPERATE SOLELY FOR OUR BENEFIT. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the Ilim joint venture in Russia. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. For additional information with respect to our Ilim joint venture, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Ilim Holding S.A. Shareholders Agreement on page 39. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned or managed approximately 250,000 acres of forestlands in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). 10 Table of Contents MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities by segment, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continually examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2011 on page 34, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2010, on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 61 through 64 and pages 66 and 67 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, ENERGY AND TRANSPORTATION COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third party companies that transport our goods. The market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. In addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE EXPERIENCE BOTH ECONOMIC CYCLICALITY AND CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICES OF, AND THE DEMAND FOR, OUR PRODUCTS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. In addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber based products and non fiber substitutes. Consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. COMPETITION IN THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNATIONALLY COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Product or pricing strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS ADVERSE DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. General economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. In addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE 8 Table of Contents MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our Companys ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, and increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. Similarly, we are subject to the risk that one of the banks that has issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with sales of our forestlands is downgraded below a required rating. If this were to happen, it may subject the Company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter of credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. THE IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty may adversely affect our access to capital, liquidity position, future business and results of operations. OUR PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS FACTORS WHICH COULD CAUSE THESE COSTS TO CHANGE. We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all U.S. salaried employees hired prior to July 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. We provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. OUR PENSION PLANS ARE CURRENTLY UNDERFUNDED, AND OVER TIME WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAKE CASH PAYMENTS TO THE PLANS, REDUCING THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR OUR BUSINESS. We record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits, at December 31, 2010 was $1.5 billion. The amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland and China, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and non U.S. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. There can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, Boiler MACT and National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation 9 Table of Contents against us cannot be determined with certainty. Although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS AT ONE OF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. SEVERAL OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED BY JOINT VENTURES THAT WE CANNOT OPERATE SOLELY FOR OUR BENEFIT. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the Ilim joint venture in Russia. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. For additional information with respect to our Ilim joint venture, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Ilim Holding S.A. Shareholders Agreement on page 39. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned or managed approximately 250,000 acres of forestlands in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry (under operating standards of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and ISO 14001 and CERFLOR in Brazil). 10 Table of Contents MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities by segment, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continually examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2011 on page 34, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2010, on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 61 through 64 and pages 66 and 67 of 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY International Paper experienced a transition year in 2010, as we emerged from one of the worst recessions in decades to end the year with our highest fourth quarter earnings per share in over ten years. The strong fourth quarter wrapped up a strong 2010. Our earnings per share before special items were more than twice what they were in 2009. The levers for improvement during 2010 included higher price realizations, volume recovery, better operations, and a significantly higher contribution from our Ilim joint venture in Russia. The primary downside came from input costs, where we saw pressure on virgin and recycled fiber costs. However, we were able to overcome these higher costs and expand our margins during 2010. We saw improvements across all of our segments and in each of our geographic regions. The health of our balance sheet remains strong. We generated free cash flow before dividends of approximately $1.7 billion (see reconciliation on page 33), in spite of increased capital spending. We also continued to reduce debt, made voluntary contributions to our qualified U.S. pension plan totaling $1.15 billion and increased our annual dividend from $0.10 to $0.75 through an increase early in 2010 and another in early 2011. Looking ahead, we believe that we continue to operate in a recovering, but not fully recovered, economy. Therefore we expect 2011 to be a year of accelerating improvement for International Paper. The first quarter has traditionally been seasonally slow and we expect first quarter results to be slightly lower than the fourth quarter of 2010, with stable volumes, prices and operations offset by rising input costs. We will also see a higher contribution from Ilim during the first quarter, which will represent their fourth quarter 2010 operations as they are reported on a one quarter lag. As the global economy continues to recover, we expect price realizations and volumes to improve throughout 2011. Earnings per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders before special items is a non GAAP measure. Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to International Paper Company shareholders is the most direct comparable GAAP measure. The Company calculates earnings per share before special items by excluding the after tax effect of items considered by management to be unusual from the earnings reported under GAAP. Management uses this measure to focus on on going operations, and believes that it is useful to investors because it enables them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. The Company believes that using this information, along with the most direct comparable GAAP measure, provides for a more complete analysis of the results of operations. The following is a reconciliation of earnings per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders before special items to diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders. 2010 2009 2008 Earnings Per Share Before Special Items $ 2.05 $ 0.88 $ 2.01 Restructuring and other charges (0.59 ) (2.00 ) (0.54 ) CBPR business integration costs 0 (0.13 ) (0.12 ) Alternative fuel mixture credits 0 3.32 0 Forestland sales 0 0 0.01 Impairments of goodwill 0 0 (4.22 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and impairments of businesses 0.03 (0.13 ) (0.19 ) Income tax adjustments (0.01 ) (0.39 ) 0.03 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share From Continuing Operations $ 1.48 $ 1.55 $ (3.02 ) Discontinued operations 0 0 (0.03 ) Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share $ 1.48 $ 1.55 $ (3.05 ) Results of Operations Industry segment operating profits are used by International Papers management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management believes that this measure allows a better understanding of trends in costs, operating efficiencies, prices and volumes. Industry segment operating profits are defined as earnings before taxes, equity earnings, noncontrolling interests, interest expense, corporate items and corporate special items. Industry segment operating profits are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a non GAAP financial measure, and are not GAAP alternatives to net income or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. International Paper operates in five segments: Industrial Packaging, Printing Papers, Consumer Packaging, Distribution, and Forest Products. 18 Table of Contents The following table shows the reconciliation of industry segment operating profits to net earnings (loss) attributable to International Paper Company for each of the last three years: In millions 2010 2009 2008 Industry segment operating profits* $ 1,686 $ 2,360 $ 1,393 Corporate items, net (226 ) (181 ) (103 ) Corporate special items** (45 ) (334 ) (1,949 ) Interest expense, net (608 ) (669 ) (492 ) Noncontrolling interests not included in operations (6 ) 5 (5 ) Income tax provision (221 ) (469 ) (162 ) Equity earnings (loss) 64 (49 ) 49 Discontinued operations 0 0 (13 ) Net earnings (loss) attributable to International Paper Company $ 644 $ 663 $ (1,282 ) * Includes the impact of segment restructuring charges in all years and alternative fuel mixture credits in 2009. ** Corporate special items include restructuring and other charges, goodwill impairment charges, gains on Transformation Plan forestland sales and net losses on sales and impairments of businesses. Industry segment operating profits of $1.7 billion were $674 million lower in 2010 than in 2009 due principally to a $344 million net loss from special items in 2010 compared with an $898 million net gain in 2009 (which included the impact of alternative fuel mixture credits). Operationally, the impacts of higher energy and raw material costs ($548 million), higher distribution costs ($95 million), a bad debt provision for a large envelope company ($17 million), higher mill outages ($47 million), and other items ($15 million) were more than offset by higher average prices ($798 million), higher sales volumes ($269 million), improved operating performance and a more favorable product mix ($154 million), and higher earnings from land and mineral sales ($69 million). The principal changes in operating profit by segment were as follows: Industrial Packagings profits of $826 million were $65 million higher as the benefits of higher sales volumes and decreased lack of order downtime, higher average sales price realizations and favorable operating costs were partially offset by higher planned maintenance downtime costs, and higher raw material and freight costs. In addition, 2010 operating profits included $19 million of plant closure costs, while 2009 operating profits included a gain of $849 million relating to alternative fuel mixture credits and $740 million of costs associated with the closures of the Albany, Oregon and Pineville, Louisiana mills, a paper machine at the Valliant, Oklahoma mill and the Etienne mill in France. Printing Papers profits of $481 million were $610 million lower. The benefits of higher sales price realizations and lower operating costs were partially offset by the net impact of lower sales volumes, higher raw material and freight costs, and higher planned mill maintenance downtime costs. Operating profits included $315 million in 2010 and $223 million in 2009 of costs associated with the closure of the Franklin, Virginia mill. In addition, operating profits in 2009 included $884 million of alternative fuel mixture credits and $34 million of other restructuring costs. Consumer Packagings profits of $207 million were down $226 million as the benefits from higher sales volumes and lower lack of order downtime, higher sales price realizations, and lower operating costs were partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs. Operating profits in 2009 included $330 million of alternative fuel mixture credits and $67 million of charges associated with the shutdown of the Franklin, Virginia mill. 19 Table of Contents Distributions profits of $78 million increased $28 million due to higher sales volumes and average sales margins partially offset by higher operating costs. Forest Products profits of $94 million increased $69 million reflecting a $39 million gain on a mineral rights sale and a $50 million gain on land sales in 2010. Corporate items, net, of $226 million of expense in 2010 were higher than the $181 million of expense in 2009 due primarily to higher pension expenses. The increase in 2009 versus $103 million of expense in 2008 was due to higher pension expenses. Corporate special items, including restructuring and other items, impairments of goodwill, gains on Transformation Plan forestland sales and net losses (gains) on sales and impairments of businesses, were a loss of $45 million in 2010 compared with a loss of $334 million in 2009 and a loss of $1.9 billion in 2008. The loss in 2008 includes $1.8 billion of goodwill impairment charges. Interest expense, net, was $608 million in 2010 compared with $669 million in 2009 and $492 million in 2008. The decrease in 2010 reflects the repayment of $3.1 billion of debt in 2009. The increase in 2009 reflects the issuance of approximately $6.0 billion of debt in connection with the acquisition of the CBPR business in 2008 and higher interest rates in 2009 due to refinancing actions taken to extend debt maturities. The 2010 income tax provision of $221 million includes a $14 million tax expense for an incentive compensation deferred tax write off, a $32 million tax expense for a Medicare Part D deferred tax write off and a $40 million net tax benefit related to cellulosic bio fuel credits. The 2009 income tax provision of $469 million includes a net $165 million provision related to 2009 special tax adjustment items. The 2008 income tax provision of $162 million includes a net $11 million benefit related to 2008 special tax adjustment items. Excluding the tax effect of all special items, taxes as a percent of pre tax earnings were 30% in both 2010 and 2009 compared with 31.5% in 2008. The higher income tax rate in 2008 reflects a higher proportion of earnings in higher tax rate jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations In 2008, $13 million of net adjustments were recorded relating to post closing adjustments and estimates associated with prior sales of discontinued businesses. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended December 31, 2010, International Paper generated $1.6 billion of cash flow from continuing operations compared with $4.7 billion, including $1.7 billion from alternative fuel mixture credits, in 2009. Capital spending for 2010 totaled $775 million, or 53% of depreciation and amortization expense. Cash expenditures for acquisitions totaled $152 million, while net reductions of debt totaled $383 million. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $2.5 billion of committed credit facilities that we believe are adequate to meet future liquidity requirements. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. We expect to generate strong free cash flow again in 2011 and will continue our balanced use of cash through investments in capital projects, the continued reduction of total debt, including the Companys unfunded pension obligation, returning value to shareholders (including the funding of our previously announced dividend increases) and strengthening our businesses through acquisitions, as appropriate. Capital spending for 2011 is targeted at $1.2 to $1.3 billion, or about 86% to 93% of depreciation and amortization. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Accounting Estimates Accounting policies that may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and financial position, and that can require judgments by management in their application, include accounting for contingent liabilities, impairments of long lived assets and goodwill, pension and postretirement benefit obligations and income taxes. 20 Table of Contents Legal See page 45 and Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
