Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Companys 50% equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate reportable industry segment. From 2007 through 2011, International Papers capital expenditures approximated $4.8 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2011 was approximately $1.2 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, including spending at the legacy Temple Inland, Inc. (Temple Inland) facilities, in 2012. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 37 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 37 and 38 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 through 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 94 and 95 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 37 and 38 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 through 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 94 and 95 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Companys manufacturing capacities on page A 3 of Appendix II. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging, graphic arts supplies and maintenance and industrial products. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally. DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS The Companys principal products are described on pages 28 and 29 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 Table of Contents SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) In thousands of short tons 2011 2010 2009 Industrial Packaging Corrugated Packaging 7,424 7,525 7,313 Containerboard 2,371 2,458 2,258 Recycling 2,435 2,486 2,280 Saturated Kraft 161 176 126 Bleached Kraft 95 85 72 European Industrial Packaging 1,047 1,040 1,046 Asian Box (2) 444 307 149 Industrial Packaging 13,977 14,077 13,244 Printing Papers U.S. Uncoated Papers 2,616 2,695 2,882 European and Russian Uncoated Papers 1,218 1,235 1,336 Brazilian Uncoated Papers 1,141 1,081 1,007 Indian Uncoated Papers (3) 49 0 0 Uncoated Papers 5,024 5,011 5,225 Market Pulp (4) 1,410 1,422 1,524 Consumer Packaging U.S. Coated Paperboard 1,375 1,398 1,242 European Coated Paperboard 332 351 354 Asian Coated Paperboard 998 870 859 Other Consumer Packaging 185 174 169 Consumer Packaging 2,890 2,793 2,624 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. (2) Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010. (3) Includes APPM volumes from date of acquisition in October 2011. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $13 million in 2011, $12 million in 2010 and $13 million in 2009. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of $60 million was spent in 2011 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2012 for similar capital projects. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper. In March 2011, the EPA published four inter related final rules commonly and collectively referred to as Boiler MACT. As finalized, these rules required owners of specified boilers to meet very strict air emissions standards for certain substances. The rule was immediately subject to administrative reconsideration by the EPA. In addition to putting certain portions of the rules into the administrative reconsideration process, the EPA also issued an administrative stay of the rules pending the outcome of the reconsideration process. On December 23, 2011, the EPA published new proposed rules that have a 60 day comment period that ended February 21, 2012. The EPA indicated their intent is to finalize these latest proposals by spring 2012. These proposals, if finalized, would change many aspects of the March 2011 rules including, but not limited to, emission limits and control equipment technology needed to meet such limits. On January 9, 2012, in Sierra Club v. Lisa P. Jackson, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, (Civil Action No. 11 1278), the Court found the administrative stay issued by the EPA to be unlawful and vacated the stay. As a result, the final rules published in March 2011 are in effect despite the fact that the EPA is in the process of reconsidering these rules. Vacating the stay, as well as the reconsideration process and the numerous lawsuits filed on these rules, has created significant legal uncertainties. Because of these significant uncertainties, it is difficult to accurately and comprehensively estimate at this time what our costs will be to comply with the rules. In addition to Boiler MACT, on December 27, 2011, the EPA also issued a proposed rule to amend national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for the pulp and paper industry. The 4 Table of Contents comment period for this proposed rule closes February 27, 2012, unless it is extended. We are currently reviewing the rule and determining what impacts it could have on our operations. While we do not have firm cost estimates at this time, and recognizing the proposed rule is likely to change, the rule could have a significant adverse impact on the pulp and paper industry, including International Paper. Recognizing these many significant uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and other regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control expenditures is approximately $105 million for 2013 and approximately $260 million for 2014. When regulatory requirements regarding Boiler MACT and the Pulp and Paper NESHAP become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the Companys environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will assess fully the potential impacts on our Company to determine a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures. CLIMATE CHANGE Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. These actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments. While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to underdeveloped nations. Four countries where we have paper making operations, India, Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in the future that may have a material effect on our operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity around the post 2012 climate control regime, it is not possible at this time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Papers operations. Under the European Union Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper has two sites covered by the EUETS. These measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2011, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2012. The U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol nor have efforts in the U.S. Congress to legislate the control of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions been successful. To date, the activity in the U.S. has been spearheaded by the U.S. EPA and, to some extent, by the states. Pursuant to its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule promulgated in 2009, the EPA began a process to collect data on emitters of greater than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas per year. Twenty of our U.S. facilities are covered by and submitted reports as required under this rule. We do not believe that the reporting rule will have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the EPA has indicated that it will propose New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for various industry sectors which will limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. However, we anticipate that, at some future time, pulp and paper sources will be subject to new NSPS rules. It is uncertain what impacts, if any, future NSPS will have on International Papers operations. The EPA has convened a Science Advisory Board (SAB) to assess the neutrality of biomass when combusted in new sources. The SAB began deliberations in 2011, but has not made any recommendations. Because the use of biomass is prevalent in the pulp and paper production process, the findings of the SAB and how they are incorporated into climate policy and subsequent regulations could be material to the industry and the Company. Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to Californias GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take full effect until 2013. Until the rules are finalized and implemented, it is unknown whether there will be any significant impact on our California facility. 5 Table of Contents It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations. In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available at http://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 61,500 employees, 34,400 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 22,400 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,500 employees. Approximately 9,900 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW). In late March 2011, International Paper negotiated the 2011 Mill Master Agreement including 15 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2011, we completed negotiations on the 2012 Converting Master Agreement including 43 of our converting facilities. These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Master Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the Master Agreements, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. During 2011, 26 local labor agreements were negotiated at three mills, 15 converting facilities and eight distribution facilities. Twelve of the agreements were automatically renewed under the terms of the Master Agreements. During 2012, 31 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated: five mills, 15 converting and 11 distribution facilities. Fourteen of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the Master Agreements if new agreements are not reached. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 62, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 63, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. C. Cato Ealy, 55, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Tommy S. Joseph, 52, senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president technology from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss Holding Company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983. Thomas G. Kadien, 55, senior vice president consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president xpedx from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Paul J. Karre, 59, senior vice president human resources and communications since May 2009. 6 Table of Contents Mr. Karre previously served as vice president human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974. Mary A. Laschinger, 51, senior vice president since 2007 and president xpedx since January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 50, senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas since November 2011. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 to 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 59, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 52, senior vice president and chief financial officer since November 2011. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2008 to 2011 and senior vice president IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Sharon R. Ryan, 52, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, and as vice president from March 2011 until May 2011. Ms. Ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988. Mark S. Sutton, 50, senior vice president industrial packaging since November 2011. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Terri L. Herrington, 56, vice president finance and controller since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice president internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Companys 2006 Transformation Plan and the CBPR acquisition in 2008 is presented in Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 74 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2 Table of Contents SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT Sales volumes of major products for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Sales Volumes by Product (1) In thousands of short tons 2011 2010 2009 Industrial Packaging Corrugated Packaging 7,424 7,525 7,313 Containerboard 2,371 2,458 2,258 Recycling 2,435 2,486 2,280 Saturated Kraft 161 176 126 Bleached Kraft 95 85 72 European Industrial Packaging 1,047 1,040 1,046 Asian Box (2) 444 307 149 Industrial Packaging 13,977 14,077 13,244 Printing Papers U.S. Uncoated Papers 2,616 2,695 2,882 European and Russian Uncoated Papers 1,218 1,235 1,336 Brazilian Uncoated Papers 1,141 1,081 1,007 Indian Uncoated Papers (3) 49 0 0 Uncoated Papers 5,024 5,011 5,225 Market Pulp (4) 1,410 1,422 1,524 Consumer Packaging U.S. Coated Paperboard 1,375 1,398 1,242 European Coated Paperboard 332 351 354 Asian Coated Paperboard 998 870 859 Other Consumer Packaging 185 174 169 Consumer Packaging 2,890 2,793 2,624 (1) Includes third party and inter segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. (2) Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010. (3) Includes APPM volumes from date of acquisition in October 2011. (4) Includes internal sales to mills. 3 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies. We direct research and development activities to short term, long term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $13 million in 2011, $12 million in 2010 and $13 million in 2009. We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of $60 million was spent in 2011 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2012 for similar capital projects. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper. In March 2011, the EPA published four inter related final rules commonly and collectively referred to as Boiler MACT. As finalized, these rules required owners of specified boilers to meet very strict air emissions standards for certain substances. The rule was immediately subject to administrative reconsideration by the EPA. In addition to putting certain portions of the rules into the administrative reconsideration process, the EPA also issued an administrative stay of the rules pending the outcome of the reconsideration process. On December 23, 2011, the EPA published new proposed rules that have a 60 day comment period that ended February 21, 2012. The EPA indicated their intent is to finalize these latest proposals by spring 2012. These proposals, if finalized, would change many aspects of the March 2011 rules including, but not limited to, emission limits and control equipment technology needed to meet such limits. On January 9, 2012, in Sierra Club v. Lisa P. Jackson, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, (Civil Action No. 11 1278), the Court found the administrative stay issued by the EPA to be unlawful and vacated the stay. As a result, the final rules published in March 2011 are in effect despite the fact that the EPA is in the process of reconsidering these rules. Vacating the stay, as well as the reconsideration process and the numerous lawsuits filed on these rules, has created significant legal uncertainties. Because of these significant uncertainties, it is difficult to accurately and comprehensively estimate at this time what our costs will be to comply with the rules. In addition to Boiler MACT, on December 27, 2011, the EPA also issued a proposed rule to amend national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for the pulp and paper industry. The 4 Table of Contents comment period for this proposed rule closes February 27, 2012, unless it is extended. We are currently reviewing the rule and determining what impacts it could have on our operations. While we do not have firm cost estimates at this time, and recognizing the proposed rule is likely to change, the rule could have a significant adverse impact on the pulp and paper industry, including International Paper. Recognizing these many significant uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and other regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control expenditures is approximately $105 million for 2013 and approximately $260 million for 2014. When regulatory requirements regarding Boiler MACT and the Pulp and Paper NESHAP become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the Companys environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will assess fully the potential impacts on our Company to determine a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures. CLIMATE CHANGE Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. These actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments. While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to underdeveloped nations. Four countries where we have paper making operations, India, Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in the future that may have a material effect on our operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity around the post 2012 climate control regime, it is not possible at this time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Papers operations. Under the European Union Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper has two sites covered by the EUETS. These measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2011, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2012. The U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol nor have efforts in the U.S. Congress to legislate the control of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions been successful. To date, the activity in the U.S. has been spearheaded by the U.S. EPA and, to some extent, by the states. Pursuant to its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule promulgated in 2009, the EPA began a process to collect data on emitters of greater than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas per year. Twenty of our U.S. facilities are covered by and submitted reports as required under this rule. We do not believe that the reporting rule will have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the EPA has indicated that it will propose New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for various industry sectors which will limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. However, we anticipate that, at some future time, pulp and paper sources will be subject to new NSPS rules. It is uncertain what impacts, if any, future NSPS will have on International Papers operations. The EPA has convened a Science Advisory Board (SAB) to assess the neutrality of biomass when combusted in new sources. The SAB began deliberations in 2011, but has not made any recommendations. Because the use of biomass is prevalent in the pulp and paper production process, the findings of the SAB and how they are incorporated into climate policy and subsequent regulations could be material to the industry and the Company. Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to Californias GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take full effect until 2013. Until the rules are finalized and implemented, it is unknown whether there will be any significant impact on our California facility. 5 Table of Contents It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations. In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available at http://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 61,500 employees, 34,400 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 22,400 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,500 employees. Approximately 9,900 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW). In late March 2011, International Paper negotiated the 2011 Mill Master Agreement including 15 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2011, we completed negotiations on the 2012 Converting Master Agreement including 43 of our converting facilities. These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Master Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the Master Agreements, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. During 2011, 26 local labor agreements were negotiated at three mills, 15 converting facilities and eight distribution facilities. Twelve of the agreements were automatically renewed under the terms of the Master Agreements. During 2012, 31 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated: five mills, 15 converting and 11 distribution facilities. Fourteen of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the Master Agreements if new agreements are not reached. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT John V. Faraci, 62, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974. John N. Balboni, 63, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978. C. Cato Ealy, 55, senior vice president corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992. Tommy S. Joseph, 52, senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president technology from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss Holding Company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983. Thomas G. Kadien, 55, senior vice president consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president xpedx from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Paul J. Karre, 59, senior vice president human resources and communications since May 2009. 6 Table of Contents Mr. Karre previously served as vice president human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974. Mary A. Laschinger, 51, senior vice president since 2007 and president xpedx since January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Tim S. Nicholls, 50, senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas since November 2011. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 to 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer IP Europe from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991. Maximo Pacheco, 59, senior vice president since 2005 and president IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994. Carol L. Roberts, 52, senior vice president and chief financial officer since November 2011. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president industrial packaging from 2008 to 2011 and senior vice president IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981. Sharon R. Ryan, 52, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, and as vice president from March 2011 until May 2011. Ms. Ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988. Mark S. Sutton, 50, senior vice president industrial packaging since November 2011. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Terri L. Herrington, 56, vice president finance and controller since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice president internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Companys 2006 Transformation Plan and the CBPR acquisition in 2008 is presented in Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 74 of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONS CHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, ENERGY AND TRANSPORTATION COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third party companies that transport our goods. The market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. In addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE EXPERIENCE BOTH ECONOMIC CYCLICALITY AND CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICES OF, AND THE DEMAND FOR, OUR PRODUCTS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. In addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber based products and non fiber substitutes. These consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. Consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. COMPETITION IN THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNATIONALLY COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Product or pricing strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORS ADVERSE DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. General economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. In addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. THE LEVEL OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CON 8 Table of Contents DITION AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. As of December 31, 2011, International Paper had approximately $9.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $0 of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and $9.5 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. In addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. A significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING ORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES, INCLUDING THE NOTES. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our Companys ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. The Companys desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the Company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or further reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. Under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $4.7 billion of our debt as of December 31, 2011, the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. As a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. There can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agencys judgment, circumstances so warrant. Any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. DOWNGRADES IN THE CREDIT RATINGS OF BANKS SUPPORTING CERTAIN LETTERS OF CREDIT WILL INCREASE OUR COST OF MAINTAINING SUCH INDEBTEDNESS AND MAY RESULT IN THE ACCELERATION OF DEFERRED TAXES. We are subject to the risk that a bank that issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with our 2006 sale of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. Since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. As a result of the ongoing uncertainty in the banking environment, including the euro zone sovereign debt crisis and the rating agencies reassessment of bank ratings, a number of the letter of credit banks currently in place are subject to an increased risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks has decreased. The downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the Company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter of credit bank or 9 Table of Contents could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. See Note 11 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. OUR PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS FACTORS WHICH COULD CAUSE THESE COSTS TO CHANGE. We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all U.S. salaried employees hired prior to July 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. We provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. OUR PENSION PLANS ARE CURRENTLY UNDERFUNDED, AND OVER TIME WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAKE CASH PAYMENTS TO THE PLANS, REDUCING THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR OUR BUSINESS. We record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits, at December 31, 2011 was $2.4 billion. The amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China, and India where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctua tions in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over International Paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTS EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to U.S. and non U.S. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. We have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, Boiler MACT and National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. We could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), cleanup and closure costs, and third party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. The amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. 10 Table of Contents RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL EFFECT ON OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. Although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS MATERIAL DISRUPTIONS AT ONE OF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and or negatively impact our financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and or require us to make unplanned expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CYBER SECURITY RISKS RELATED TO BREACHES OF SECURITY PERTAINING TO SENSITIVE COMPANY, CUSTOMER, EMPLOYEE AND VENDOR INFORMATION AS WELL AS BREACHES IN THE TECHNOLOGY THAT MANAGES OPERATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESS PROCESSES. International Paper business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with International Paper. Access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, could stem from such incidents. Any of these operational disruptions and or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. SEVERAL OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED BY JOINT VENTURES THAT WE CANNOT OPERATE SOLELY FOR OUR BENEFIT. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the Ilim joint venture in Russia. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our 11 Table of Contents relationship with our co owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. For additional information with respect to our Ilim joint venture, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Ilim Holding S.A. Shareholders Agreement on page 44. WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM OUR RECENT ACQUISITION OF TEMPLE INLAND OR FROM OTHER STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES. On February 13, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Temple Inland in a transaction valued at approximately $4.5 billion. As a condition to allowing the transaction to proceed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice entered into an agreement with the Company that requires us to divest three containerboard mills, with approximately 970,000 tons of aggregate containerboard capacity, within four months of closing (with the possibility of two 30 day extensions). The success of the Temple Inland acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to divest these mills successfully and to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating Temple Inland with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time consuming, and we may not accomplish the integration of Temple Inland smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Potential integration risks include, among other things, our ability to successfully implement our business plan for the combined business, retain key customers, suppliers and employees, and retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. In addition, Temple Inlands obligations and liabilities, some of which may not have not been disclosed to us or may not be reflected or reserved for in Temple Inlands financial statements, may be greater than we have anticipated, and we do not have the benefit of any indemnification in the merger agreement with respect to obligations or liabilities of Temple Inland, whether known or unknown. Potential liabilities of Temple Inland include, but are not limited to: pending and potential civil proceedings and criminal investigations related to an August 2011 upset condition in an evaporator at Temple Inlands Bogalusa, Louisiana paper mill that caused the Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) limits for permitted discharge from the wastewater treatment pond into the Pearl River to be exceeded, resulting in a fish kill; and a pending lawsuit filed by the liquidating trustee for Guaranty Bank, a former subsidiary of Temple Inlands financial services business that was spun off by Temple Inland in 2007, asserting various claims relating to the failure of Guaranty Bank and its parent Guaranty Financial Group. More broadly, our strategy for long term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to make prudent strategic acquisitions and divestitures and to realize the benefits we expect from them, and are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES FORESTLANDS As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or managed approximately 325,000 acres of forestlands in Brazil, and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government owned forestlands in Russia. All owned lands in Brazil are independently third party certified for sustainable forestry under CERFLOR. MILLS AND PLANTS A listing of our production facilities by segment, the vast majority of which we own, can be found in Appendix I hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Companys facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for the purposes for which they are presently being used. We continue to study the economics of modernization or adopting other alternatives for higher cost facilities. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS Given the size, scope and complexity of our business interests, we continually examine and evaluate a wide variety of business opportunities and planning 12 Table of Contents alternatives, including possible acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. You can find a discussion about the level of planned capital investments for 2012 on page 37, and dispositions and restructuring activities as of December 31, 2011, on pages 24 through 27 of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and on pages 65 and 66 and 69 and 70 of 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY International Paper generated diluted earnings per share attributable to common shareholders from continuing operations and before special items of $3.10 during 2011, compared with $2.05 in 2010, and $0.88 in 2009. Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shareholders were $3.07 for 2011, compared with $1.48 for 2010 and $1.55 for 2009. Our 2011 full year results from continuing operations and before special charges represented our best financial results in almost two decades. 2011 benefited from margin expansion, due to increased price realizations that stayed with us throughout the year and improved mix, and excellent operations and cost management, which combined to more than offset higher input costs of $0.61 per share. We also benefited from a $0.21 increase in earnings from our Ilim joint venture in Russia, which experienced year over year revenue growth of 26%. In North America, sales volumes were down slightly, but sales revenue was up moderately reflecting increased price flow through and strong margin expansion of 200 basis points. Outside the U.S., we increased earnings, but in different ways. Margins were stable, but we also saw a 6% increase in sales volumes, contributing to a 17% increase in sales revenue. Free cash flow for 2011 was stable with 2010 at approximately $1.7 billion (see reconciliation on page 35), even though 2011 included an increase of approximately $380 million in capital expenditures. This strong free cash flow resulted in a $400 million increase in our year end cash balance over 2010, after deducting $1.5 billion borrowed in anticipation of the acquisition of Temple Inland, which closed on February 13, 2012. We also made a $300 million voluntary contribution to strengthen the health of our pension plan in 2011. Diluted earnings per share attributable to common shareholders from continuing operations and before special items of $0.66 in the fourth quarter of 2011 were lower than both the $0.92 in the 2011 third quarter and the $0.68 in the 2010 fourth quarter. Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shareholders were $0.59 in the fourth quar ter of 2011, compared with $1.19 in the third quarter of 2011 and $0.73 in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our 2011 fourth quarter results were in line with our original expectation, as we experienced normal seasonal weakness in North America and some related downward pricing pressure, primarily in market pulp, and exports from North America in both paper and packaging. Additionally, a significant negative currency impact at Ilim nearly erased their earnings contribution for the quarter (Ilim is reported on a one quarter lag basis). These headwinds were somewhat offset by benefits from our global balance, including seasonally stronger demand in paper sales in Brazil, Russia and Europe as well as stronger box volumes and improved margins in EMEA, and some global input cost relief in fiber and energy. Free cash flow of $328 million generated in the 2011 fourth quarter was lower than the $561 million generated in the 2011 third quarter and the $601 million generated in the 2010 fourth quarter (see reconciliation on page 36). These decreases were partially due to an increase in capital spending of approximately $120 million over both previous periods. The decrease from the 2011 third quarter was also driven by lower earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), while a decrease in cash inflows related to working capital accounted for the remainder of the decrease versus the 2010 fourth quarter. As we have said before, we believe we are operating in an economy that is recovering, but not fully recovered. While our first quarter is always a seasonally slow period, we expect modest increases in volume in North America in the 2012 first quarter versus the 2011 fourth quarter, primarily in packaging due to four more box shipping days and increased exports in our papers business. The continued pass through of previously negotiated export price reductions in packaging, paper and pulp will materially impact price realizations in the first quarter. Additionally, in Brazil, seasonally weaker domestic demand will result in a greater percentage of lower priced paper exports in the quarter which will negatively impact earnings. As to inputs, slightly higher costs in North America, primarily for wood and chemicals, will largely offset the benefit of lower overall mill outages during the quarter. Earnings for xpedx, our distribution business in the U.S., will decrease as the first quarter is a seasonally low shipment period. The contribution from our Ilim joint venture will improve based largely on the absence of the negative currency impact of the 2011 fourth quarter, but run rate earnings (reflecting the one quarter lag in reporting) will be lower than the 20 Table of Contents peak levels reported in the 2011 second quarter as we feel the full impact of pulp price erosion over this period. Finally, manufacturing operations and all other costs associated with the businesses will materially reduce earnings in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011, primarily driven by expected one time costs associated with the pending start ups later this year at both our Franklin mill and the Sun joint venture in China, seasonally higher costs related to the consumption of energy and fuels, primarily due to colder weather, the absence of beneficial one time adjustments in the 2011 fourth quarter related to company paid benefits, and lastly, the absence of our favorable adjustments related to inventory revaluations experienced in the 2011 fourth quarter. Earnings per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders before special items is a non GAAP measure. Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to International Paper Company shareholders is the most direct comparable GAAP measure. The Company calculates earnings per share before special items by excluding the after tax effect of items considered by management to be unusual from the earnings reported under GAAP. Management uses this measure to focus on on going operations, and believes that it is useful to investors because it enables them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. The Company believes that using this information, along with the most direct comparable GAAP measure, provides for a more complete analysis of the results of operations. The following are reconciliations of earnings per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders before special items to diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to International Paper Company common shareholders. 2011 2010 2009 Earnings Per Share Before Special Items $ 3.10 $ 2.05 $ 0.88 Restructuring and other charges (0.19 ) (0.59 ) (2.00 ) CBPR business integration costs 0 0 (0.13 ) Alternative fuel mixture credits 0 0 3.32 Net gains (losses) on sales andimpairments of businesses 0.08 0.03 (0.13 ) Interest income 0.01 0 0 Income tax adjustments (0.06 ) (0.01 ) (0.39 ) Bargain purchase price adjustmentrecorded in equity earnings 0.02 0 0 Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share From Continuing Operations $ 2.96 $ 1.48 $ 1.55 Discontinued operations 0.11 0 0 Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share $ 3.07 $ 1.48 $ 1.55 ThreeMonthsEndedDecember 31,2011 Three Months EndedSeptember 30,2011 ThreeMonthsEndedDecember 31,2010 Earnings Per Share Before Special Items $ 0.66 $ 0.92 $ 0.68 Restructuring and other charges (0.03 ) (0.07 ) (0.07 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and impairments of businesses 0 0.34 0.03 Interest income 0.01 0 0 Income tax adjustments (0.05 ) 0 0.09 Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share $ 0.59 $ 1.19 $ 0.73 Results of Operations Industry segment operating profits are used by International Papers management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management believes that this measure allows a better understanding of trends in costs, operating efficiencies, prices and volumes. Industry segment operating profits are defined as earnings before taxes, equity earnings, noncontrolling interests, interest expense, corporate items and corporate special items. Industry segment operating profits are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a non GAAP financial measure, and are not GAAP alternatives to net income or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. International Paper operates in four segments: Industrial Packaging, Printing Papers, Consumer Packaging and Distribution. Effective January 1, 2011, the Forest Products Business is no longer being reported by the Company as a separate industry segment due to the immateriality of the results of the remaining business on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net earnings (loss) attributable to International Paper Company to its total industry segment operating profit: In millions 2011 2010 2009 Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to International Paper Company $ 1,341 $ 644 $ 663 Deduct Discontinued operations: (Gain) loss on sales or impairment (49 ) 0 0 Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations Attributable to International Paper Company 1,292 644 663 Add back (deduct): Income tax provision 311 221 469 Equity (earnings) losses, net of taxes (159 ) (64 ) 49 Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 14 21 18 Earnings (Loss) From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity Earnings 1,458 822 1,199 Interest expense, net 541 608 669 Noncontrolling interests / equity earnings included in operations (10 ) (15 ) (23 ) Corporate items 145 226 181 Special items: Restructuring and other charges 82 70 333 Net losses (gains) on sales and impairments of businesses 0 (25 ) 1 $ 2,216 $ 1,686 $ 2,360 Industry Segment Operating Profit Industrial Packaging $ 1,147 $ 826 $ 761 Printing Papers 872 481 1,091 Consumer Packaging 163 207 433 Distribution 34 78 50 Forest Products 0 94 25 Total Industry Segment Operating Profit $ 2,216 $ 1,686 $ 2,360 Industry segment operating profits of $2.2 billion in 2011 included a net loss from special items of $253 million compared with $344 million in 2010 and a net gain of $898 million in 2009 (which included the impact of alternative fuel mixture credits). Operationally, compared with 2010, the impacts of higher sales price realizations ($611 million) and improved operating performance and a more favorable product mix ($370 million) were partially offset by lower sales volumes ($54 million), higher input costs ($381 million), lower gains from land sales ($94 million) and other items ($13 million). The principal changes in operating profit by segment were as follows: Industrial Packagings profits of $1.1 billion were $321 million higher as the benefits of higher average sales price realizations and favorable operating costs were partially offset by lower sales volumes and higher market related downtime and increased distribution and freight costs. In addition, 2011 operating profits included $20 million of costs associated with the signing of an agreement to purchase Temple Inland, while 2010 operating profits included $19 million of plant closure costs. Printing Papers profits of $872 million were $391 million higher than in 2010. The benefits of higher sales price realizations, lower operating costs and a more favorable product mix were partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs. Operating profits in 2011 included a gain of $21 million related to the reversal of environmental reserves due to the announced repurposing of the Franklin, Virginia mill and $11 million of asset impairment costs associated with the Inverurie, Scotland mill which was closed in 2009. Operating profits in 2010 included $315 million of costs associated with the closure of the Franklin, Virginia mill. Consumer Packagings profits of $163 million, which included costs of $201 million associated with the fixed asset impairment and sale of the Shorewood business, were $44 million lower than in 2010. The benefits from higher sales price realizations, lower operating costs and a more favorable mix of products sold were partially offset by higher raw material and freight costs. Distributions profits of $34 million were $44 million lower than 2010 primarily due to $52 million of reorganization expenses. Higher sales 22 Table of Contents price realizations and lower operating costs were mostly offset by lower sales volumes. Forest Products had a profit of $94 million in 2010 reflecting a $39 million gain on a mineral rights sale and a $50 million gain on land sales. Corporate items, net, of $145 million of expense in 2011 were lower than the $226 million of expense in 2010 due to lower supply chain initiative expenses and lower pension expense. The increase in 2010 from 2009 primarily reflects higher pension expense. Corporate special items, including restructuring and other items and net losses on sales and impairments of businesses were a loss of $76 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $45 million in 2010 and a loss of $334 million in 2009. Interest expense, net, was $541 million in 2011 compared with $608 million in 2010 and $669 million in 2009. The decrease in 2011 reflects lower debt levels throughout much of the year, while the decrease in 2010 reflects the repayment of $3.1 billion of debt in 2009. A net income tax provision of $311 million was recorded for 2011, including a tax benefit of $222 million related to the reduction of the carrying value of the Shorewood business and the write off of a deferred tax liability associated with Shorewood, a $24 million expense related to internal restructurings, a $9 million expense for costs associated with our acquisition of a majority interest in Andhra Pradesh Paper Mills Limited, a $13 million benefit related to the release of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance and a $2 million expense for other items. The 2010 income tax provision of $221 million includes a $14 million tax expense for an incentive compensation deferred tax write off, a $32 million tax expense for a Medicare Part D deferred tax write off and a $40 million net tax benefit related to cellulosic bio fuel credits. The 2009 income tax provision of $469 million includes a net $165 million provision related to 2009 special tax adjustment items. Excluding the tax effect of all special items, taxes as a percent of pre tax earnings were 32% in 2011 and 30% in both 2010 and 2009. The higher income tax rate in 2011 reflects a higher proportion of earnings in higher tax rate jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations In 2011, $49 million of net income adjustments were recorded relating to prior sales of discontinued businesses. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended December 31, 2011, International Paper generated $2.7 billion of cash flow from continuing operations compared with $1.6 billion in 2010. Capital spending for 2011 totaled $1.2 billion, or 87% of depreciation and amortization expense. Cash expenditures for acquisitions totaled $379 million, while net increases in debt totaled $1.3 billion, primarily representing debt incurred in anticipation of the Temple Inland acquisition. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $2.5 billion of committed credit facilities that we believe are adequate to meet future liquidity requirements. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. We expect to generate strong free cash flow again in 2012 and will continue our balanced use of cash through investments in capital projects, the reduction of total debt, including the Companys unfunded pension obligation, returning value to shareholders (including the funding of our previously announced dividend increases) and strengthening our businesses through acquisitions, as appropriate. Capital spending for 2012 is targeted at $1.5 billion, or about 102% of depreciation and amortization, including spending at the legacy Temple Inland facilities. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Accounting Estimates Accounting policies that may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and financial position, and that can require judgments by management in their application, include accounting for contingent liabilities, impairments of long lived assets and goodwill, pension and postretirement benefit obligations and income taxes. See pages 45 through 48 for a discussion of the Companys critical accounting policies and significant accounting estimates. Legal See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
