FILE:DD/DD-8K-20021004134230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events
In connection with Debt and/or Equity Securities that may be offered on a delayed or
continuous basis under Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 33-53327, No. 33-60069 and No. 333-86363), the registrant hereby files the following news release.
WILMINGTON, Del., Oct. 3, 2002 -- DuPont announced today that it expects third quarter
earnings per share excluding one-time items to be in the $0.35 to $0.37 range, exceeding the company's earlier estimate of approximately $0.24 per share. In the third quarter of 2001, the company reported underlying earnings at $0.12 per share.
After evaluating preliminary sales for the quarter, the company now expects third quarter
pre-tax business results to modestly exceed its earlier estimate.
In addition, the third quarter provision for income taxes is expected to be lower than previously
anticipated, based on the company's current view of its full year underlying tax rate. This accounts for the majority of earnings improvement versus the company's earlier earnings per share estimate.
DuPont will address today's revised estimate and related information when it announces
earnings for the third quarter on Oct. 23.
During 2002, DuPont is celebrating its 200 year of scientific achievement and innovation -
th
providing products and services that improve the lives of people everywhere. Based in Wilmington, Del., DuPont delivers science-based solutions for markets that make a difference in people's lives in food and nutrition; health care; apparel; home and construction; electronics; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K
Forward-Looking Statements:
and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
10/3/02
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 4, 2002
 


