FILE:DD/DD-8K-20021023112653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
3:
 
Item 5.
Other Events
          The Registrant Files, pursuant to Regulation FD, its earnings news release dated October 23, 2002, entitled "DuPont Reports Third Quarter 2002 Earnings," a copy of which is below. This earnings news release is also filed in connection with Debt and/or Equity Securities that may be offered on a delayed or continuous basis under Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 33-53327, No. 33-60069 and No. 333-86363).
Summary
Third quarter underlying earnings were $.40 per share compared to $.12 earned in the third quarter 2001.
Third quarter underlying earnings include a $.14 per share benefit from a lower estimated full-year 2002 tax rate.
Including one-time items third quarter 2002 earnings per share were $.47 compared to $.13 in the third quarter 2001.
Segment sales were $6.2 billion. On a comparable business basis, sales were 4 percent higher than last year reflecting 6 percent higher volume, partly offset by 2 percent lower U.S. dollar selling prices.
Third quarter after-tax operating income (ATOI) before one-time items increased 76 percent versus third quarter last year, principally reflecting higher volumes, lower raw material and fixed costs, and a lower effective income tax rate. Significant earnings gains were recorded by the Performance Materials, Coatings & Color Technologies, and Textiles & Interiors segments.
 
          "Our third quarter results showed steady improvement with progress across most businesses, particularly those supporting the housing, automotive and agricultural industries," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "While overall volume growth has been strong, the pricing environment remains difficult. We remain focused on executing well in the present while driving our long-term sustainable growth objectives."
Global Sales and Income
          For the quarter, consolidated sales totaled $5.5 billion compared to $5.6 billion in 2001. Segment sales, including transfers and a pro rata share of sales by equity affiliates, were $6.2 billion, down 2 percent from $6.4 billion in 2001. On a comparable business basis (excluding the impact on sales attributable to acquisitions and divestitures) sales increased 4 percent reflecting 6 percent higher volume, partly offset by 2 percent lower U.S. dollar selling prices.           Net income, including one-time items, was $469 million, compared to $142 million in the third quarter of 2001, resulting in earnings per share of $.47 compared to $.13 last year. Year-to-date 2002 reported earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (SFAS 142 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) were $1.49 per share versus comparable earnings of $.39 per share last year. After reflecting a noncash cumulative effect charge of $2.95 per share for impairment to goodwill related to acquisitions in previous years, year-to-date 2002 results were a loss of $1.46 per share compared to earnings of $.40 per share for the nine months of 2001.           For the quarter, net income before one-time items was $401 million versus $128 million in 2001, or $.40 per share and $.12 per share, respectively. The increase in underlying earnings per share reflects improved segment ATOI, principally in the Performance Materials, Coatings & Color Technologies and
 
 
Textiles & Interiors segments, and significantly lower net interest expense. In addition to higher volumes and lower costs, improved results reflect a lower effective tax rate due to benefit from geographic mix of earnings and other tax planning initiatives.           One-time items are described in the notes to the accompanying financial statements and are summarized in the table below:
Segment Sales
          Regional segment sales and related variances for the third quarter 2002 compared with the third quarter 2001 are summarized below:
 
Sales increased 4 percent on a comparable business basis as volume grew 6 percent worldwide and improved in all geographic regions. Higher volumes versus last year reflect growth in most businesses.
The impact of 4 percent lower local selling prices was partly offset by a 2 percent benefit to sales from the currency effect of a weaker dollar. Pricing remains particularly difficult in the Textiles & Interiors and Electronic & Communication Technologies segments.
Business Segment Performance
          Summarized below are comments on individual segment sales and ATOI excluding one-time items for the third quarter 2002 compared to third quarter 2001. Additional segment information is available to investors and the public via the Earnings Data section of the DuPont Investor Web site.
Sales increased 12 percent reflecting higher sales of crop production and food ingredient products as well as the acquisition of Liqui-Box. Seasonal losses were lower than those of last year, improving ATOI by $28 million versus last year principally reflecting higher sales and lower fixed costs, the latter largely from the required adoption of SFAS 142 that eliminated the amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles.
Agriculture & Nutrition
-
Sales increased 6 percent reflecting higher volumes in the motor vehicle-related businesses and benefit from the weaker dollar. Prices for titanium dioxide products, although improving, remain below last year's levels. ATOI was up $56 million or 50 percent, reflecting higher volumes, improved pretax margins, and a lower effective tax rate.
Coatings & Color Technologies
-
Sales grew 5 percent from a very weak third quarter last year. Volumes were up 9 percent partly offset by 4 percent lower prices. ATOI increased 29 percent reflecting gradual improvement in selected markets with particular strength in Asia and a lower effective tax rate.
Electronic & Communication Technologies -
Sales increased 8 percent with 10 percent higher volume driven by continued strength in the automotive and packaging markets, partly offset by 2 percent lower selling prices. ATOI increased $69 million or 119 percent reflecting higher volumes, lower raw material costs and a lower effective tax rate.
Performance Materials -
ATOI was $72 million, reflecting the DuPont share of earnings from Cozaar / Hyzaar .. Last year's third quarter earnings of $84 million reflected results from the final quarter of DuPont Pharmaceuticals operation before its divestiture on October 1, 2001.
Pharmaceuticals -
Safety & Protection - Sales decreased 1 percent. Sales volumes of nonwoven products continue to be strong but were essentially offset by sales declines in aramid products and last year's chemical product rationalization. ATOI improved 12 percent due to strength in nonwovens and a lower effective tax rate.
 
Sales increased 2 percent as 7 percent volume growth was largely offset by lower selling prices. The volume increase was led by improvements in residential flooring, nylon textile, spandex and polyester filament products. ATOI increased to $60 million from $10 million last year when market conditions were at unprecedented lows. ATOI benefited from reduced fixed cost spending, lower raw material costs, and a lower effective tax rate.
Textiles & Interiors -
Outlook
          
DuPont expects economic growth to continue in the fourth quarter, but at a pace moderately below third quarter growth rates. The company expects U.S. automotive and housing markets to remain strong and consumer spending to hold up reasonably well. On the negative side, energy-related raw material costs are trending up at a time when selling price increases remain difficult to achieve.
          
Taking all these factors into account, including the revised full-year income tax rate estimate, the company's earlier fourth quarter earnings outlook remains unchanged. That is, the company expects underlying fourth quarter earnings per share to be about triple those of the prior year, which would result in full-year underlying earnings of approximately $2.00 per share. It should be noted, however, that continued volatility in the equities markets, slower pace of economic growth, and the potential for political conflict add risk to achieving this outlook.
          
"While we cannot control the economy, we can control how we execute our business plans in the face of economic challenges and uncertainty," said Holliday. "As we look ahead, we are focused and committed to superior execution, maintaining our competitiveness and continuously adding value for our shareholders."
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
10/23/02
 
 
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT - (CONT'D)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT INFORMATION
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT INFORMATION - (CONT'D)
 
 
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES(a)
(3QUARTER 2002 VS. 3 QUARTER 2001)
rd
rd
 
 
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
(Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 23, 2002


