FILE:DD/DD-8K-20020808134317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)     Exhibits
99.1 -- Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer Regarding Facts And
Circumstances Relating To Exchange Act Filings
99.2 -- Statement Under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts And
Circumstances Relating To Exchange Act Filings
 
Item 9.    
Regulation FD Disclosure
Pursuant to Regulation FD, the registrant hereby elects to file the following news release and
related exhibits.
 
 
 
 
WILMINGTON, Del., Aug. 8, 2002 - DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Charles O. Holliday, Jr., and DuPont Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Gary M. Pfeiffer, by certification letter to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), today affirmed the accuracy of DuPont's Form 10-K report for 2001; Form 10-Q reports for the first and second quarters of 2002; the company's 2002 proxy statement to shareholders and other recent filings. These actions are in response to a June 27, 2002, order by the SEC requiring approximately 950 companies to certify the accuracy of financial reports.
Investors and others who are interested are encouraged to review DuPont SEC filings via the
Investor Center at www.dupont.com.
During 2002, DuPont is celebrating its 200 year of scientific achievement and innovation -
th
Providing products and services that improve the lives of people everywhere. Based in Wilmington, Del., DuPont delivers science-based solutions for markets that make a difference in people's lives in food and nutrition; health care; apparel; home and construction; electronics; and transportation.
8/8/02
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
August 8, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I, Charles O. Holliday, Jr., state and attest that:
no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
Annual Report of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001;
all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and
any amendments to any of the foregoing.
 
/s/ Charles O. Holiday, Jr.
 
 
 
 
I, Gary M. Pfeiffer, state and attest that:
no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
Annual Report of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001;
all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and
any amendments to any of the foregoing.
 
/s/ Gary M. Pfeiffer
 


