FILE:DD/DD-8K-20020627134525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events
          In connection with Debt and/or Equity Securities that may be offered on a delayed or continuous basis under Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 33-53327, No. 33-60069 and No. 333-86363), the registrant hereby files the following news release.
 
 
 
 
          WILMINGTON, Del., June 25, 2002 - DuPont (NYSE: DD) announced today that it now estimates second quarter underlying earnings per share to be between $.64 and $.67. This represents an improvement of the company's previous earnings estimate of about $.55. The company's underlying earnings in the second quarter of 2001 were $.41 per share.
          The improved outlook reflects higher sales across most of the DuPont reporting segments. Current First Call consensus is $.56 per share.
          Separately, the company now expects to complete its evaluation of goodwill in accordance with SFAS 142 and to announce a non-cash impairment charge with its second quarter earnings report.
          DuPont will provide further details on its second quarter results via its quarterly earnings news release, Web site postings, and investor conference call, scheduled for July 24, 2002.
          During 2002, DuPont is celebrating its 200 year of scientific achievement and innovation - providing products and services that improve the lives of people everywhere. Based in Wilmington, Del., DuPont delivers science-based solutions for markets that make a difference in people's lives in food and nutrition; health care; apparel; home and construction; electronics; and transportation.
th
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated . These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
June 27, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


