FILE:DD/DD-8K-20031022145418.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
>
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
            On October 22, 2003, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 12 of this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 22, 2003
 
 
Summary
Third quarter earnings before special items were $.13 per share, compared to $.40 per share before special items in the third quarter of 2002.
Current quarter earnings include non-cash charges totaling $1.04 per share taken in connection with the anticipated separation of INVISTA, formerly DuPont Textiles & Interiors (DTI).
Reported third quarter 2003 earnings per share were a loss of $.88 per share, compared to earnings of $.47 per share in the prior year.
Consolidated net sales were $6.1 billion, up 12 percent compared to the prior year.
Worldwide segment sales volumes increased 4 percent.
Higher raw material costs reduced earnings by $200 million after-tax, or $.20 per share, while non-cash pension and stock option expense reduced earnings by an additional $.10 per share.
            "Our businesses increased volume and significantly improved the top line performance of the company in a still challenging and difficult economy," said DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles O. Holliday, Jr. "We held, and in some cases improved, our competitive position by focusing on productivity and meeting the needs of our customers. We are confident that we will meet our growth objectives as the economy improves," Holliday said.
 
            Third quarter consolidated net sales totaled $6.1 billion compared to $5.5 billion in third quarter 2002, up 12 percent. Third quarter net income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles was a loss of $873 million, or $.88 per share, including non-cash after-tax charges totaling $1,039 million, or $1.04 per share, taken in connection with the anticipated separation of INVISTA. This compares to third quarter 2002 earnings of $469 million or $.47 per share. In addition to the INVISTA separation-related charges, the decrease in income reflects higher raw material costs, higher taxes, increased non-cash pension expense and a reduction in benefits from other special items versus the third quarter 2002 as shown below.
Global Consolidated Net Sales and Net Income
            
Income before special items shown above was $135 million, or $.13 per share, versus $401 million, or $.40 per share, in the third quarter 2002.
 
            Worldwide and regional segment sales and related variances for the third quarter 2003 compared with the third quarter 2002 are summarized below. Segment sales include transfers and a pro rata share of equity affiliate sales.
Segment Sales
Worldwide volumes increased 4 percent, principally reflecting growth in Asia and South America.
Volume increased in most operating segments.
Local selling prices were down slightly on a worldwide basis - declining less than 1 percent. Including the currency effect from a weaker dollar, U.S. dollar selling prices increased 3 percent.
Business Segment Performance
            Comments on individual segment sales and after-tax operating income (ATOI) for the third quarter 2003 compared with the third quarter 2002 are summarized below. All segments had a benefit to sales ranging from 2-5 percent resulting from the currency effect of the weaker dollar. Additional segment information is available to investors and the public via the earnings data section of the Investor Center on www.dupont.com.
Third quarter sales of $0.8 billion were 32 percent higher reflecting 4 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices, 10 percent higher volume, and an 18 percent benefit attributable to additional sales from The Solae Company, a newly formed venture with Bunge Limited. ATOI was a loss of $142 million versus a loss of $91 million. After-tax losses, which are typical in the seasonally low third quarter, increased versus last year principally because of a lower effective tax rate on seasonal losses, higher non-cash pension expense, and higher raw material costs.
Agriculture & Nutrition
-
 
Sales of $1.4 billion were up 8 percent principally reflecting 7 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices and 2 percent added through an acquisition, partly offset by 1 percent lower volume. ATOI declined 29 percent to $120 million, as the benefit of higher revenue was more than offset by less favorable product and geographic mix in coatings and non-cash pension expense across the segment.
Coatings & Color Technologies
-
Sales of $0.7 billion were up 13 percent, reflecting 11 percent higher volumes, 3 percent lower prices and 5 percent acquisition-related sales growth. ATOI was $32 million versus $67 million last year. Earnings declined as a result of pricing pressure in Fluoropolymers; start-up costs for Displays; and non-cash pension expense, which more than offset the benefits of higher revenue. Commercialization of Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) displays has been delayed due to technical difficulties with start-up.
Electronic & Communication Technologies -
Sales of $1.3 billion were up 4 percent reflecting 3 percent higher volume and 2 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices partly offset by a 1 percent reduction due to the divestiture of the DuPont Clysar shrink film business. ATOI was $55 million compared to $181 million last year. In addition to significantly higher raw material and non-cash pension costs, the earnings decline reflects the absence of a $51 million gain on the sale of the Clysar business in the third quarter 2002.
Performance Materials -
TM
ATOI was $100 million versus $72 million last year. The current quarter ATOI includes a $15 million one-time benefit from a favorable arbitration ruling.
Pharmaceuticals -
Sales of $1.0 billion were up 17 percent due to 2 percent higher prices, 9 percent higher volumes, and 6 percent from acquisitions. Increased revenue was largely offset by higher non-cash pension expense and raw material costs. ATOI declined 1 percent due to absence of a $3 million restructuring benefit in third quarter 2002.
Safety & Protection -
Sales were $1.7 billion, up 3 percent excluding the impact of the change in management reporting for inter-segment transfers. This reflects 2 percent higher volume and 1 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices. ATOI was a loss of $1,047 million versus earnings of $60 million last year. The earnings decline principally reflects non-cash charges totaling $1,039 million associated with the anticipated separation of INVISTA, explained in more detail below, significantly higher raw material and non-cash pension costs.
Textiles & Interiors -
INVISTA Impairment Charges
            In conjunction with the anticipated separation of INVISTA, and in light of the previously announced negotiations for the sale of INVISTA, DuPont recorded an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $987 million to write down to estimated fair value various manufacturing and intangible assets, including goodwill, as well as investments in certain joint ventures. In addition, a non-cash charge of $52 million was recorded for pension curtailment losses. Additional charges and credits may be recorded in connection with the separation which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
 
Earnings Outlook
            Macroeconomic indicators, as well as the company's September volumes, suggest that the industrial sector is likely in the early stages of a recovery. Given this expectation, the company reaffirms the full year 2003 outlook which it provided on September 17 of approximately $1.60 earnings per share before special items. Year-to-date, net special items total losses of $1.01 per share. Thus, the company's outlook for the full year 2003, including special items, is approximately $0.59. This excludes unknown special items that could occur in the fourth quarter.             Management believes that earnings before special items, a "non-GAAP" measure, is meaningful to investors because it provides insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from th ose stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
Forward-Looking Statements:
10/22/03
The DuPont Oval, DuPont , The miracles of science , and Clysar , are registered trademarks or trademarks of DuPont or its affiliates.
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT - (CONT'D)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT INFORMATION - (CONT'D)
 
 
 
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES(a) (3 QUARTER 2003 VS. 3 QUARTER 2002)
rd
rd
 
 
 
 
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
(Dollars in millions, except per share)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES
 


