FILE:DD/DD-8K-20040505112019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Item 2.
Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
              On April 30, 2004, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (the "company") completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of the company's Textiles & Interiors segment ("INVISTA") to subsidiaries of Koch Industries Inc. ("Koch") for $3.828 billion and the assumption of approximately $272 million of the company's debt. Except for three equity affiliates, this transaction was completed on April 30, 2004. The transfer of three equity affiliates will be delayed until the company receives approval from its equity partners, which is expected in the second half of the year. Upon transfer of these equity affiliates, the company expects to realize a gain of approximately $77 million. If these equity affiliates were not to be transferred, it could reduce the expected gain and final cash proceeds reflected in the purchase price above by up to $77 million and $168 million, respectively. Final proceeds are subject to adjustments to reflect closing balances for working capital and consolidated debt levels. The pro forma financial information included herein assumes the transfer of these equity affiliates will be successfully completed as expected, and is based on terms set forth in the definitive purchase and sales agreement with Koch.
               In connection with the sale, the company indemnified Koch against certain liabilities primarily related to taxes, legal matters, environmental matters and other representations and warranties. The estimated fair value of these obligations is $75 million
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
See notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
Notes to the Unaudited E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
May 5, 2004


