FILE:DD/DD-8K-20040727161853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
Item 12.     
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
                  On July 27, 2004, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 12 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 27, 2004
Summary
Segment sales were $8.2 billion, increasing 9 percent excluding the impact of portfolio changes, principally the INVISTA divestiture.
Second quarter net income was $503 million or $.50 per share compared with the second quarter 2003 earnings of $675 million or $.67 per share.
Before special items, second quarter 2004 earnings per share were $.80, modestly exceeding the company's second quarter outlook.
Second quarter 2004 earnings per share before special items grew, 29 percent versus prior year, reflecting significant improvement in Agriculture & Nutrition, Electronic & Communication Technologies, Performance Materials, and Pharmaceuticals.
            "For the second consecutive quarter, the five DuPont growth platforms delivered strong growth in revenue, earnings and cash despite high energy and raw material prices," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "During the second quarter, we also completed the sale of our Textiles & Interiors business and executed the major phase of our previously announced $900 million cost improvement program. I am proud of the results that our people have delivered on all fronts."
 
            Consolidated net sales totaled $7.5 billion compared to $7.4 billion in second quarter 2003, up 2 percent. The benefit to sales from 4 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices and 6 percent higher sales volume offset a substantial sales reduction resulting from portfolio changes (the INVISTA divestiture, net of the consolidation of DuPont Dow Elastomers).             Second quarter net income was $503 million, or $.50 per share, compared to $675 million, or $.67 per share, in the second quarter of 2003. The decrease in income principally reflects current period restructuring costs, partly offset by increases in operating income. Operating income improvement was principally due to higher sales volumes and selling prices, as well as increased Pharmaceuticals earnings.             Special items totaled an after-tax charge of $302 million, or $.30 per share in the second quarter 2004 versus a net after-tax benefit of $52 million, or $.05 per share, last year, as summarized in Schedule B and further detailed in the notes to the financial statements.             Net income before special items was $805 million, up 29 percent. This compares to $623 million in the second quarter 2003.             Segment sales, which include transfers and a pro rata share of equity affiliates, were $8.2 billion in the second quarter, down 1 percent versus prior year. The table below shows second quarter sales by region and variance analysis versus the prior year:
Global Consolidated Net Sales and Net Income
Business Segment Performance
 
 
Worldwide sales, excluding portfolio changes, increased 9 percent with strong growth in all regions.
Worldwide sales volumes increased 5 percent with solid growth in most regions.
Asia volumes increased 15 percent reflecting significant growth in sales of electronic materials, engineering polymers, and crop protection products.
Local currency selling prices continue to show improvement versus prior year.
            The table below presents year-over-year sales analysis for the five core segments of DuPont. This provides insight into the performance of DuPont, ex-INVISTA.
Sales in the five core segments increased 14 percent -- reflecting 7 percent volume growth, 4 percent higher U.S. dollar prices, and 3 percent from fully consolidating DDE.
All core segments delivered double-digit revenue growth versus last year.
Volume growth was strong in all core segments, with 14 percent volume growth in Electronic & Communication Technologies, most notably in the Asia Pacific region.
            Segment pretax operating income (PTOI) grew 23 percent before special items, which are summarized in Schedule B. This growth reflects a strong Northern Hemisphere agricultural season, significant growth in Asia, and continued strong demand from U.S. manufacturing and construction markets. These benefits were partly offset by higher raw material costs. The Pharmaceutical segment grew earnings substantially versus a depressed prior year result.
 
          Detailed information on segment performance is provided in schedules C, D, and E which show sales variance analyses, segment PTOI as reported, and segment PTOI excluding the impact of special items. The company encourages investors to review these schedules. Additional segment information is available in the earnings data section of the DuPont Investor Center on dupont.com.           The company closed the sale of INVISTA on April 30. After-tax proceeds from the sale were $4.1 billion, including debt assumed by the buyer of roundly $270 million.           The company has increased its full year earnings per share outlook. The previous outlook was $2.10 to $2.30 per share. The updated full year outlook is $2.25 to $2.35 per share, with third quarter accounting for roughly 40 percent of the second half earnings. (Both outlooks exclude first and second quarter special items referenced above and discussed in the notes to Schedule A.) This outlook assumes that industrial production growth rates will continue to be strong, though somewhat moderated from the rates experienced in the first half of 2004; oil and natural gas prices will remain at or slightly below their currently high levels; and currency will continue to provide a modest benefit.           "Across our company, the people of DuPont are focused on meeting our growth objectives. We are putting our science to work to serve our customers, and we are continuously improving our productivity," said Holiday. "Our financial outlook reflects our confidence in the success of these actions."           Management believes that earnings before special items, a "non-GAAP" measure, is meaningful to investors because it provides insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP is provided in Schedule G.
Other Items
Outlook
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
          DuPont is a science company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for the people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture, nutrition, electronics, communications, safety and protection, home and construction, transportation and protective apparel.
: This news release contains forward-looking statements based onmanagement's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ mate rially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
Forward-Looking Statements
7/27/04
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B
SPECIAL ITEMS (Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT INFORMATION
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE D
(a)
SEGMENT SALES
(Dollars in millions)
2 QUARTER 2004 VS. 2 QUARTER 2003
nd
nd
 
SCHEDULE E
(Dollars in millions)
SEGMENT INFORMATION EXCLUDING IMPACT OF SPECIAL ITEMS
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE F
(Dollars in millions, except per share)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE G
(Dollars in millions)
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES
 


