FILE:DD/DD-8K-20040427120341.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Item 7.     
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12.     
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
                  On April 27, 2004, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 12 of this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 27, 2004
 
 
 
 
Summary
First quarter 2004 net income was $668 million or $.66 per share compared with first quarter 2003 earnings of $535 million or $.53 per share.
Before special items, first quarter 2004 earnings per share was $.96, compared with $.61 per share for the first quarter 2003, up 57 percent.
Segment pretax operating income before special items rose 35 percent on 15 percent higher sales.
Sales volume grew 7 percent, reflecting strength in all operating segments and regions.
Local currency prices were up 1 percent.
Higher raw material costs were essentially offset by the benefit of a weaker U.S. dollar.
 
          "We are off to an excellent start in 2004," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "Each of the five DuPont growth platforms delivered strong results, exceeding our earnings expectations across all businesses and regions."           Consolidated net sales totaled $8.1 billion compared to $7.0 billion in first quarter 2003, up 15 percent, reflecting stronger sales volume and higher U.S. dollar selling prices.           First quarter net income was $668 million, compared to $535 million in the first quarter of 2003. The increase in income principally reflects the benefit of higher sales volumes, higher U.S. dollar prices, a lower income tax rate, and the absence of depreciation on INVISTA assets held for sale, partly offset by increases in raw material costs and charges for special items described in the notes accompanying the financial statements. Special items totaled an after-tax charge of $296 million, or $.30 per share, versus a net after-tax charge of $51 million, or $.05 per share taken in the first quarter 2003.           Worldwide and regional segment sales and related variances for the first quarter 2004 compared with the first quarter 2003 are summarized below. Segment sales include transfers and a pro rata share of equity affiliate sales.
Global Consolidated Net Sales and Net Income
First Quarter Segment Sales
 
          Detailed information on segment performance is provided in schedules C, D, and E which show revenue variance analyses, segment pretax operating income (PTOI) as reported, and segment PTOI excluding the impact of special items. The company encourages investors to review these schedules. Additional segment information is available in the earnings data section of the DuPont Investor Center on dupont.com.           All operating segments delivered double-digit revenue growth in the quarter versus last year and, in total, increased sales by $1.2 billion or 15 percent. This growth reflects robust volume growth in all operating segments, with a notable 17 percent volume growth in Electronic & Communications Technologies. The company's businesses continued to show strong growth across Asia, with 14 percent volume growth broadly supported across the Asia-Pacific region. Agriculture & Nutrition delivered significant local price improvement, more than offsetting local price declines in INVISTA. Currency benefited both sales and earnings in all operating segments.           Excluding special items, all operating segments delivered significant growth in earnings versus last year. Of the five growth platforms (the five operating segments other than INVISTA), Electronics & Communications showed the most improvement, almost tripling its pre-tax earnings from a low point last year. The remaining growth platforms grew PTOI by 13 to 34 percent, before special items, reflecting a strong Northern Hemisphere agricultural season and broad based momentum in the manufacturing and construction markets that DuPont serves.           As previously announced, the company anticipates that the sale of INVISTA will close on April 30. The company expects the after-tax proceeds from the sale to be about $4.1 billion, including debt assumed by the buyer of roundly $270 million. Proceeds from the sale will be used primarily to reduce debt. The company is also evaluating a potential contribution to its principal U.S. pension plan.
Business Segment Performance
Other Items
 
          In the second quarter, the company expects to record a charge of approximately $.17 to $.19 per share in connection with its previously announced cost improvement program. In addition, the company anticipates second quarter charges and credits associated with closing the INVISTA transaction, which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.          Excluding these special items, the company expects to deliver earnings per share that are in the range of the recently increased First Call earnings consensus estimate of $0.78 (which excludes the impact of special items). The company reaffirms its previous full year earnings per share outlook of $2.10 to $2.30 (excluding the first and second quarter special items discussed above).           "Our first quarter results reinforce the strong future we see for our company, our customers and our shareholders," Holliday said. "Each day we are strengthening our ability to create and seize opportunities around the world."           "With the anticipated closing of the sale of INVISTA just days ahead, we thank all of those who contributed to the 80-year heritage of our textile fiber businesses, creating brands and products that are today synonymous with the textile industry. I wish the people of INVISTA a bright and successful future."           Management believes that earnings before special items, a "non-GAAP" measure, is meaningful to investors because it provides insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP is provided in Schedule G.
Outlook
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
          DuPont is a science company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by solving problems and creating solutions that make people's lives better, safer and easier. Operating in more than 70 countries, the company offers a wide range of products and services to markets including agriculture, nutrition, electronics, communications, safety and protection, home and construction, transportation and apparel.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from th ose
Forward-Looking Statements:
stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
4/27/03
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A
 
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B
SPECIAL ITEMS (Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C
 
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE D
(a)
SEGMENT SALES
(Dollars in millions)
1 QUARTER 2004 VS. 1 QUARTER 2003
st
st
 
SCHEDULE E
(Dollars in millions)
SEGMENT INFORMATION EXCLUDING IMPACT OF SPECIAL ITEMS
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE F
(Dollars in millions, except per share)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE G
(Dollars in millions)
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES


