FILE:DD/DD-8K-20050125112402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
3:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
                  On January 25, 2005, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 12 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 25, 2005
Highlights
Fourth quarter 2004 earnings were $.28 per share.
Fourth quarter earnings before special items were $.37 per share.
Segment sales, excluding the divested Textiles & Interiors businesses, grew 14 percent on 5 percent volume growth and 7 percent higher U.S. dollar selling prices. Local selling price increases more than offset the impact of higher raw material costs.
Fourth quarter segment pretax operating income (PTOI), before special items, was $709 million, up 32 percent.
Full-year 2004 earnings per share before special items were $2.38, up 43 percent, compared to $1.66 earned last year.
            "The fourth quarter caps a year of improved operating performance by our company, delivering broad-based revenue growth, cost productivity and margin improvement," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "We are executing our strategies to put our science to work, to go where the growth is, and to leverage the global capabilities of our company. I am very pleased with the positive momentum our employees are creating for DuPont, our customers and our shareholders."
 
 
            Consolidated net sales for the fourth quarter were $6.0 billion compared to $6.5 billion in the fourth quarter 2003, and $27.3 billion for the full year compared to $27.0 billion in 2003. Net income for the fourth quarter was $278 million or $.28 per share compared to $636 million or $.63 per share in the prior year. Net income for the full year was $1,780 million or $1.77 per share, compared to $973 million or $.96 per share for 2003.             Fourth quarter net income before special items was $371 million or $.37 per share, up 28 percent. Higher selling prices and volume growth more than offset higher energy and raw material costs. Variances reconciling 2004 fourth quarter earnings per share before special items with fourth quarter 2003 are shown in the table below:
Global Consolidated Net Sales and Net Income
            For the year 2004, net income before special items was $2.4 billion or $2.38 per share versus $1.7 billion or $1.66 per share in the prior year, up 43 percent. The improvement reflects higher selling prices, volume growth, lower operating costs and favorable currency exchange rates, partly offset by higher energy and raw material costs.
 
            As shown below, Core Segment sales, which exclude the divested Textiles & Interiors businesses and include transfers and a pro rata share of equity affiliate sales were $6.3 billion in the fourth quarter, up 14 percent versus 2003. Sales growth can be attributed largely to 5 percent volume growth and 7 percent higher U.S. dollar prices, which include 4 percent higher local selling prices. Positive pricing momentum for the Core Segments continued throughout the fourth quarter.
Business Segment Performance - Segment Sales
Business Segment Performance - Segment Sales by Region
            Worldwide volume growth was 5 percent with especially strong growth in the emerging markets of China and Eastern Europe. In the United States, volumes were up 1 percent, building on the very strong 6 percent volume growth in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
            Segment PTOI for the quarter was $596 million versus $221 million in the fourth quarter 2003.             Segment PTOI before special items for the fourth quarter was $709 million, up 32 percent, and $4,205 million for the full year, up 34 percent.
Business Segment Performance - PTOI
The Performance Materials segment increased selling prices, grew volumes and improved cost productivity. PTOI increased 83 percent.
The Electronic & Communication Technologies segment increased electronic and imaging new product sales and achieved price and volume gains, while continuing to reduce costs. PTOI increased 42 percent.
The Coatings & Color Technologies segment captured price improvements and volume gains, most notably in white pigments and automotive refinishes. PTOI improved by 17 percent.
The Safety & Protection segment grew revenue 22 percent achieving higher volume and prices through new product introductions, addressable market expansion and continued demand for aramids, while increasing investments for future growth. PTOI improved by 13 percent.
The Agriculture & Nutrition segment realized earnings gains through improved margins in crop protection and higher sales in Pioneer. PTOI seasonal losses were $10 million less than 2003.
 
          DuPont expects 2005 earnings per share to be between $2.65 and $2.85 excluding special items. Continued success in executing the company's growth and productivity strategies within its cash discipline principles is expected to improve earnings per share as well as cash flow.           Key expectations underlying this outlook are:
Outlook
          "With the structural transformation of our company now complete, our number one priority is delivering on our three business strategies which we are confident will create superior value for our customers and our shareholders," said Holliday.
Revenue growth:
Sales from new products are expected to increase to 33 percent of total sales as the company continues to introduce new products and realizes the full advantage of hundreds of new products introduced in the previous four years.
The pricing momentum created in 2004 will continue.
Emerging market growth is expected to continue to outpace global GDP growth as the company increases its penetration into those markets.
 
Productivity improvements:
The application of Six Sigma technologies to global sourcing, energy reduction, yield improvements, increases in manufacturing uptime and other supply chain efficiencies will intensify in 2005.
The company will improve operating margins by realizing the full-year savings from the 2004 $900 million cost improvement program coupled with increases in sales and marketing effectiveness and improved pricing.
Global economy:
Worldwide industrial economic growth will be at historical trend line rates with strong growth in Eastern Europe, China and Latin America, and growth slightly below trend line levels in North America and Western Europe.
Raw material costs will increase above 2004, as oil and U.S. natural gas prices persist at current levels.
          The company's agriculture businesses are highly seasonal. Historically, about two-thirds of the company's revenues have been realized in the first half of the calendar year. As a result, the company expects that approximately 70 percent of 2005 earnings per share excluding any special items will be realized within the first half of the year. Based on historic patterns of seasonality, first half earnings per share would be about evenly split between the first and second quarters.           Management believes that measures of earnings before special items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP is provided in Schedule G.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
          DuPont is a science company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture, nutrition, electronics, communications, safety and protection, home and construction, transportation and protective apparel.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
Forward-Looking Statements:
1/25/05
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT - (CONT'D)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B
SPECIAL ITEMS(1) (Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE D
(1)
SEGMENT SALES
(Dollars in millions)
4 QUARTER 2004 VS. 4 QUARTER 2003
th
th
 
SCHEDULE E
(Dollars in millions)
SEGMENT INFORMATION EXCLUDING IMPACT OF SPECIAL ITEMS
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE F
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA EXCLUDING IMPACT OF SPECIAL ITEMS AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES(Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES (Dollars in millions)
SCHEDULE G
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE G - (Cont'd)
 
 
 


