FILE:DD/DD-8K-20050726141105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
3:
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[    ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[    ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[    ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[    ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.02     
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
                  On July 26, 2005, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 26, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights
Second quarter 2005 earnings were $1.01 per share versus $.50 per share in the prior year.
Excluding significant items, second quarter earnings per share grew 13 percent.
Asset sales, a favorable tax audit settlement and restructuring costs totaled a net benefit of $.11 per share in the quarter. In second quarter 2004, similar significant items totaled a net charge of $.30 per share.
Segment pretax operating income margin improved for the sixth consecutive quarter, up 1.4 percentage points versus prior year (excluding significant items and the divested Textiles & Interiors businesses).
Local prices increased 6 percent, more than offsetting higher energy and ingredient costs.
Segment sales were $7.9 billion, up 8 percent, excluding sales from the divested Textiles & Interiors and Photomasks businesses. Sales growth was achieved in all operating segments.
Volumes were flat, with strong growth in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe offsetting lower volumes in the United States and Western Europe.
                    "We improved our operating profit margin for the sixth consecutive quarter, despite record high energy and ingredient costs," said DuPont Chairman and CEO Charles O. Holliday, Jr. "Continued success with pricing and sales from new products were key to our strength in the quarter."
 
                    Consolidated net sales for the second quarter were $7.5 billion, essentially flat versus the second quarter 2004 which included $0.6 billion in sales from the Textiles & Interiors (T&I) businesses divested April 30, 2004. Net income for the second quarter was $1,015 million or $1.01 per share. Current quarter net income includes a net benefit of $111 million, or $.11 per share, related to asset sales, a favorable tax audit settlement, and restructuring costs. Second quarter 2004 net income was $503 million, or $.50 per share, including similar items totaling a net charge of $302 million, or $.30 per share. See Schedule B for a summary of these items.                    The table below shows the increase in second quarter 2005 earnings per share (EPS) versus second quarter 2004, by major element:
Global Consolidated Net Sales and Net Income
Earnings Per Share
 
                    Segment sales in the second quarter 2005 were $7.9 billion. Second quarter 2004 sales of $8.2 billion included $0.8 billion from divested businesses. As shown below, sales increased 8 percent versus 2004 excluding these divested businesses*. Sales growth resulted from 6 percent higher local selling prices and a 2 percent currency benefit and flat volume. Positive pricing momentum for the growth platforms continued throughout the second quarter.
Business Segment Performance - Segment Sales
 
                    Segment pretax operating income (PTOI) for second quarter 2005 was $1,588 million compared to $668 million in the second quarter 2004. Segment PTOI increased 14 percent and PTOI margin increased 1.4 percentage points excluding significant items and divested businesses from both periods. The second quarter 2005 segment performance reflected a $90 million net benefit from significant items. The second quarter 2004 included significant item charges totaling $661 million, principally for corporate restructuring costs and charges related to the separation of T&I businesses. Segment PTOI and percentage changes versus second quarter 2004 are shown below:
Business Segment Performance - PTOI
Agriculture & Nutrition
PTOI was $511 million versus $446 million in the prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI grew 6 percent as higher selling prices were partially offset by lower volumes and continued investments for growth.
Second quarter sales were $2.1 billion, up 1 percent on 6 percent higher USD selling prices and 5 percent lower volumes.
Higher selling prices reflect higher soybean and chemicals prices and a richer corn seed product mix. Volumes declined in seed, soy protein and crop protection chemicals.
On a year-to-date basis, which better reflects the Northern Hemisphere selling season, sales were $4.5 billion, up 4 percent. Year-to-date PTOI was $1,268 million versus $1,077 million in the prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI grew 14 percent.
12 new products were introduced during the quarter, largely in support of an expanded fungicide offering.
 
Coatings & Color Technologies
PTOI was $194 million versus $150 million in the prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI declined by 9 percent, primarily due to higher raw material and other costs.
Second quarter segment sales were $1.7 billion, up 5 percent on 8 percent higher USD prices, and 3 percent lower volumes.
Higher selling prices largely reflect continued price improvements in titanium dioxide. Lower motor vehicle builds contributed to declining volumes.
114 new products were launched during the quarter, led by expanded offerings in automotive systems and powder coatings.
Electronic & Communication Technologies
PTOI was $211 million versus $(27) million in the prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI increased 87 percent versus second quarter 2004 and pretax operating income margin improved more than 700 basis points.
Second quarter sales were $0.9 billion up 10 percent. Excluding the divested Photomasks unit from both periods, sales increased 12 percent on 9 percent higher USD prices and 3 percent higher volume.
Higher sales volume for electronic materials and fluoroproducts, higher fluorochemical pricing, and productivity gains drove sales and earnings improvement.
56 new products were introduced during the quarter. New product sales gains were significant in the photovoltaic, auto electronics, and display markets.
Performance Materials
PTOI was $190 million versus $103 million in 2004. Excluding significant items, PTOI increased 9 percent due to higher elastomers earnings. Other than in elastomers, higher prices and productivity gains offset higher raw material costs and lower volume.
Second quarter sales were $1.8 billion, up 8 percent on 10 percent higher USD prices, and 2 percent lower volume.
Local prices were up in every business. Higher elastomers volumes largely offset declines related to North American motor vehicle production and intermediates demand.
21 new products were launched during the quarter including new Zytel molding resins reinforced with Kevlar and Fusabond coupling agents.
Safety & Protection
PTOI was $283 million versus $163 million in the prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI improved 21 percent on strong sales growth.
Second quarter sales were $1.4 billion, up 19 percent on 9 percent higher USD selling prices and 10 percent higher volumes.
Each component business realized double-digit sales growth on price and volume gains. Unit costs rose reflecting higher raw material costs in certain businesses.
60 new products were introduced during the quarter, with multiple introductions in each business.
          Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center at
.
www.DuPont.com
 
          Three key assumptions have changed since the original guidance provided six months ago about the company's expected 2005 results:
          "Pricing, new products, growth in emerging markets and productivity gains will overcome more than $1 billion in higher energy and ingredients costs this year," said Holliday. "We remain confident that in 2005 we will exceed our sustainable earnings growth goal of 10 percent."
Outlook
The company improved local pricing 5 percent in the first half 2005 versus prior year, compared to an original assumption of about half that rate of increase. The company still expects positive pricing momentum to continue in the second half.
Energy and ingredient costs are much higher than originally expected. Six months ago the company's outlook assumed costs for oil and U.S. natural gas in 2005 would average $43 per barrel and $6.80 per million btu, respectively. The company now expects its energy and ingredient costs to be at least $1 billion higher than 2004, approximately double the original assumption.
Volume is down in two discrete market segments. In the motor vehicle market segment, auto builds by certain OEMs declined. The volume impact is primarily reflected in the company's Coatings & Color Technologies and Performance Materials segments. In the agricultural market segment, corn seed volume was below expectations due to lower corn acreage in Europe (due to weather) and lower share in North America. Volume expectations for the southern hemisphere growing season are unchanged.
          Pricing and productivity in first half of 2005 more than offset cost increases from raw materials and inflation. Adding to this improvement in earnings were significant items (gains on asset sales and a favorable tax settlement partly offset by a restructuring charge).           Considering the above, the company now expects full-year 2005 reported earnings per share of $2.75 to $2.80, including $.11 per share in significant items recorded in the second quarter. In addition, the company expects third quarter earnings per share to be roughly 40 percent of the second half 2005 earnings. (This outlook excludes any potential impact from actions that might be taken in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act). In 2004, DuPont reported earnings per share of $1.77, and earnings per share before significant items of $2.38 which included $.13 per share attributable to the divested T&I businesses.
American Jobs Creation Act
          The company continues to review alternatives to repatriate foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act"). No decision to repatriate earnings has been made. However, should the company decide to repatriate earnings under the Act, it would expect to repatriate between $8 and $10 billion over the remainder of 2005, the upper end of the range previously disclosed. A preliminary assessment indicates that the tax cost will be between 3 percent and 4 percent of the amount repatriated. Currently these earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested and no taxes have been reserved. The company expects to finalize its decision during the third quarter.
          Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP is provided in Schedule E.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
          DuPont is a science company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture, nutrition, electronics, communications, safety and protection, home and construction, transportation and protective apparel.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects,"
Forward-Looking Statements:
"anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acce ptance; and seasonality of sales of agricultural products.
7/26/05
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS (Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS BY SEGMENT (Dollars in millions on pretax basis)
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C
 
 
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE D
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Dollars in millions, except per share)
 
SCHEDULE E
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES (Dollars in millions)
 
SCHEDULE E -- (Continued)


