FILE:DD/DD-8K-20070424164751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 24, 2007, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 24, 2007
 
Highlights
     "We're off to a solid start in 2007," said DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles O. Holliday, Jr. "We continue to improve operating margin and return on capital as we deliver on our growth strategies and productivity initiatives. Our results highlight the benefits of our global presence and diversified businesses."
Global Consolidated Net Income and Sales
     Net income for the first quarter of 2007 was $945 million, or $1.01 per share including a net charge of $0.06 per share to increase an existing litigation reserve. First quarter 2006 net income was $817 million, or $0.88 per share including a net charge of $0.05 per share for significant items. The increase in first quarter net income reflected 6 percent revenue growth driven by significantly higher seed sales, increased pharmaceuticals income, fixed cost productivity gains and a favorable currency impact. See Schedule D for a summary of first quarter 2007 earnings and comparisons to prior year.
 
     Consolidated net sales increased $451 million, or 6 percent, to $7.8 billion in the first quarter, reflecting 2 percent higher local prices, a 2 percent increase in volume, and a 2 percent currency benefit. A summary of first quarter 2007 worldwide regional sales performance is shown in the table below.
     Worldwide sales volume grew 2 percent reflecting significantly higher sales of seed products and volume growth outside the United States, partly offset by lower sales into the U.S. residential construction and OEM motor vehicle markets.
Earnings Per Share
     The table below shows the variances in first quarter 2007 earnings per share (EPS) versus first Quarter 2006:
 
 
Business Segment Performance
     Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for first quarter of 2007 increased 20 percent to $1.6 billion from $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding significant items in both years, segment PTOI rose 13 percent to $1.6 billion in the quarter from $1.4 billion in the prior-year quarter. Segment PTOI, sales and related variances versus first quarter of 2006 are shown in the following tables:
 
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
 
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
&
Safety
Protection
Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
 
Outlook
     DuPont reaffirms its outlook for 2007 full-year earnings per share of about $3.15, excluding a $0.06 per share charge for significant items. The company continues to expect modest volume gains as growth outside the United States and strong agricultural seed markets outweigh lower demand from the U.S. housing and automotive markets. The company's outlook for the remainder of 2007 assumes that energy and ingredient costs will continue to be about equal to 2006.
     "We're right on track. We are well positioned in global industrial and agricultural markets and have an exciting pipeline of new products that customers value," Holliday said. "We remain intensely focused on accelerating returns on our innovation and increasing cost and capital productivity."
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
     Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule E.
     DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
SCHEDULE A
(a), (b), (c) See Notes to Schedules of Significant Items for additional information
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS BY SEGMENT
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
SCHEDULE D
 
SCHEDULE E
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
SCHEDULE E (continued)
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate


