FILE:DD/DD-8K-20070724163250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 24, 2007, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 24, 2007

 
Highlights
          "We are seeing the benefit of our global presence  capitalizing on strong routes to market in developing countries and building on our market-leading positions for businesses that serve multiple industries," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "We generated solid volume growth in all regions outside the United States and increased local selling prices for the 14 consecutive quarter while reducing fixed costs as a percentage of sales. We are executing our growth strategies and continuing to increase return on invested capital."
th
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
          Consolidated net sales grew 6 percent to $7.9 billion in the quarter due to 2 percent higher local prices, a 1 percent increase in volume, and a 3 percent currency benefit. The 4 percent volume growth outside the United States was partly offset by lower volumes, primarily in the United States, from slower housing and auto markets. A summary of second quarter 2007 worldwide and regional sales performance is shown in the table below.
 
          Net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $972 million, or $1.04 per share. Second quarter 2006 net income was $975 million, or $1.04 per share, and included a $31 million, or $0.03 per share tax benefit. Excluding the tax benefit, second quarter 2006 net income was $944 million, or $1.01 per share. The year-over-year improvement in underlying results principally reflects higher local prices, favorable currency impact, volume growth outside the United States, and higher pharmaceutical income. These gains were partially offset by higher ingredient costs and increased cost investments primarily to accelerate biotech research and development, expand global sales coverage in seeds, and increase production capacity in Kevlar and Nomex, photovoltaics, and select China facilities.
Earnings Per Share
          The table below shows the variances in second quarter 2007 earnings per share (EPS) versus second quarter 2006:
 
 
Business Segment Performance
          Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for the second quarter of 2007 grew 6 percent to $1.6 billion from $1.5 billion in the second quarter of 2006. Segment sales, PTOI, and related variances versus the second quarter of 2006 are shown in the following tables:
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
Coatings & Color Technologies
 
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
          Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
Share Repurchase Program Update
          The company has completed nearly 80 percent of its $5 billion share repurchase program announced October 2005. In the second quarter 2007, the company repurchased 5.9 million shares of its stock for $300 million. The total amount repurchased to date under this program is $3.9 billion, or approximately 90 million shares. The company expects to complete the remaining $1.1 billion of the program, consistent with its financial discipline principles, by the end of 2007.
Outlook
          DuPont reaffirms its outlook for 2007 full-year earnings per share of about $3.15, excluding a $0.06 per share charge for significant items in the first quarter 2007. For the second half of 2007, the company expects to benefit from continued growth outside the United States, higher local selling prices and ongoing fixed cost productivity gains. The company also anticipates continued softness in U.S. housing, higher ingredient costs and a higher base tax rate versus last year.
          "Our strong position as a global market leader in both developed and developing economies enabled us to deliver 9 percent earnings growth in the first half of the year," Holliday said.
 
"We will achieve our outlook through cost productivity gains and by continuing to deliver competitive advantages to our customers through market-driven innovations."
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
          Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule D.
          DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
7/24/07
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS BY SEGMENT
 
(a), (b), (c) See Notes to Schedules of Significant Items for additional information.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate


