FILE:DD/DD-8K-20071025162523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 23, 2007, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, elected Marillyn A. Hewson as a new director, effective immediately. A copy of the press release announcing Marillyn A. Hewson's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     At the present time, Marillyn A. Hewson has not been named to any committee of the board of directors and it is premature to state which committee(s), if any, Marillyn A. Hewson may expect to be named to in the future.
     There is no arrangement or understanding between Marillyn A. Hewson and any other person pursuant to which Marillyn A. Hewson was elected as a director of the Company. There are no transactions in which Marillyn A. Hewson has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     The following exhibit is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K:
     99.1 Press release, dated October 24, 2007, entitled "Marillyn A. Hewson Elected to DuPont Board of Directors ".
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 25, 2007

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     WILMINGTON, Del., Oct. 24, 2007  DuPont today announced that Marillyn A. Hewson, executive vice president at Lockheed Martin, has been elected to its board of directors.
     Hewson, 53, has served in key leadership positions in the aerospace industry. During her 24-year career at Lockheed Martin, Hewson has led a broad range of businesses and strategic functions. In her current role as executive vice president of global sustainment, Hewson is responsible for ensuring that customers around the world receive best-value sustainment services and total life cycle support for their aircraft.
     "Marillyn will provide a wealth of knowledge and experience from the aerospace industry to the DuPont board," DuPont Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles O. Holliday, Jr., said. "Her broad perspectives and global insight, especially in the aerospace and government markets, will be valuable to DuPont as we continue to grow as a science-based products and services company."
     DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
10/24/07


