FILE:DD/DD-8K-20071023164545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
     On October 23, 2007, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 23, 2007
 
Highlights
     "DuPont generated solid operating leverage and 20 percent earnings per share growth in the third quarter," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "We increased sales outside the U.S. 11 percent and grew worldwide Agriculture & Nutrition segment sales 21 percent. Our performance reflects the concentrated actions of our employees to execute our growth strategies and productivity initiatives, which overcame the challenges of higher cost ingredients and lower U.S. demand."
 
Global Consolidated Sales
     Consolidated net sales increased 6 percent to $6.7 billion in the quarter. Excluding portfolio changes, sales grew 7 percent and sales generated outside the U.S. were 64 percent of total consolidated net sales. Volume rose 6 percent outside the U.S., with significant growth in Latin America, led by the Agriculture & Nutrition segment. A summary of third quarter 2007 worldwide and regional sales performance, excluding portfolio changes, is shown in the table below.
 
Net Income and Earnings Per Share
     Net income for the third quarter 2007 was $526 million, or $0.56 per share including a $0.03 per share litigation charge. Third quarter 2006 net income was $485 million, or $0.52 per share including a $0.03 per share benefit for insurance recoveries.
 
     The table below shows the variances in third quarter 2007 earnings per share (EPS) versus third quarter 2006:
 
     The $0.03 per share variance in Fixed costs, noted above, includes about $0.04 per share from growth investments to accelerate biotech research and development, expand global sales coverage in seeds, and increase future production capacity, partially offset by a $0.01 per share benefit from cost reduction projects in excess of inflation. The $0.03 per share variance in Other, noted above, is principally related to a benefit of $0.02 in the Agriculture & Nutrition segment resulting from a contract termination payment received in 2007.
 
Business Segment Performance
     Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for the third quarter 2007 grew 2 percent to $916 million from $900 million in the third quarter 2006. Excluding significant items from the prior-year third quarter, segment PTOI increased 12 percent from $850 million.
     Segment sales (excluding portfolio changes), PTOI, and related variances versus the third quarter 2006 are shown in the following tables:
 
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
 
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
     Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
Share Repurchase Program Update
     In the third quarter 2007, the company repurchased 22.9 million shares of its stock for $1.1 billion as the final step in completing the $5 billion share repurchase program announced in October 2005. Under this program, the company repurchased 112.8 million shares, or about 11 percent of the diluted shares outstanding in October 2005.
 
Outlook
     DuPont updated its outlook for full-year 2007 earnings per share from about $3.15 to a range of $3.15 to $3.20, excluding the $0.09 per share charge for significant items in the year-to-date results. For the fourth quarter 2007, the company expects strong sales growth outside the United States will continue to exceed the effect of lower demand from U.S. housing and auto markets. The company anticipates PTOI to grow substantially from last year's fourth quarter, reflecting continued execution of its growth strategies and productivity initiatives partially offset by higher ingredient costs. Net Income growth is expected to be tempered by a much higher base tax rate in the fourth quarter versus the prior year.
     DuPont's 2008 outlook is positive. The company expects strong revenue growth in emerging markets and anticipates significant earnings growth in its Agriculture & Nutrition segment. New product acceleration efforts and continued cost and capital productivity gains across the company are expected to be additional contributing factors. This positive outlook is moderated by potentially lower demand from U.S. housing and automotive markets and the uncertainty of ingredient costs. The company's current outlook is to grow 2008 earnings per share about 5 to 10 percent from its anticipated 2007 earnings of $3.15 to $3.20 per share before significant items.
     The company generated 11 percent earnings per share growth before significant items in the first nine months of the year.
     "This performance places us firmly on track to achieve our 2007 outlook and sets the stage for continued growth in 2008," Holliday said. "While uncertainties remain in the global economy, we are confident in our ability to deliver solid earnings growth next year.
     "Looking beyond 2008, DuPont is well positioned to capitalize on exciting growth opportunities in markets such as energy efficiency, agriculture productivity, renewable energy, and safety and security," Holliday said. "We have aligned our research and development investments with these growth opportunities and are positioned to deliver attractive returns in these fast growing markets with a strong pipeline of new technologies and products."
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
     Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule D.
 
About DuPont
     DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
10/23/07
 
SCHEDULE A
(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) See Notes to Schedules of Significant Items for additional information.
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS BY SEGMENT
(b), (c), (d), (e) See Notes to Schedules of Significant Items for additional information.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliation of Percentage Change in Sales to Percentage Change in Sales Excluding Portfolio Changes for Three Months Ended September 30, 2007
 


