FILE:DD/DD-8K-20081215151007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Effective January 1, 2009, the Company amended its Bylaws as follows:
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Company's Bylaws, as amended, which is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 15, 2008
 

AS REVISED EFFECTIVE -1, 200
August
January
9
8
 
 
 
     SECTION 1. Annual. Meetings of the stockholders for the purpose of electing Directors, and transacting such other proper business as may be brought before the meeting, shall be held annually at such date, time and place, within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors ("Board").
     SECTION 2. Special. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Board and shall be called by the Secretary at the request in writing of the holders of record of at least twenty-five percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote. Special meetings shall be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board shall designate.
     SECTION 3. Notice. Written notice of each meeting of stockholders, stating the place, date and hour of the meeting, and the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be mailed not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat.
     SECTION 4. Quorum. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the holders of shares of stock entitled to cast a majority of votes at a meeting, present either in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at such meeting.
     Absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock or Preferred Stock at any meeting or adjournment thereof, at which under the Certificate of Incorporation the holders of Preferred Stock have the right to elect any Directors, shall not prevent the election of Directors by the other class of stockholders entitled to elect Directors as a class if the necessary quorum of stockholders of such other class shall be present in person or by proxy.
     SECTION 5. Organization. The Chair of the Board shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Company shall act as Secretary of all meetings of the stockholders, but in the absence of the Secretary the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the Chair.
man
("Chair")
man of the Board
 
     SECTION 6. Voting. Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting shall be entitled to one vote for each share held of record, in person, by written proxy or by any permissible means of electronic transmission, provided that such electronic transmission must either contain, or be submitted with, information from which it can be determined that it was authorized by the stockholder. Upon the demand of any stockholder, such stockholder shall be entitled to vote by ballot. All elections and questions shall be decided by plurality vote, except as otherwise required by statute.
     SECTION 7. Inspector(s). At each meeting of the stockholders the Inspector(s) shall, among other things, ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each; determined the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots; count all votes and ballots; and certify their determination of the number of shares represented and their count of all votes and ballots. If three or more Inspectors are appointed, a majority of those appointed shall have power to make a decision. Each such Inspector shall be appointed by the Board before the meeting, or in default thereof, by the presiding officer at the meeting, and shall be sworn to the faithful performance of their duties. If any Inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
     SECTION 1. Number. The business and affairs of the Company shall be under the direction of the Board. The number of Directors, which shall not be less than ten, shall be determined from time to time by the vote of two-thirds of the whole Board.
     SECTION 2. Term. Each Director shall hold office until the next annual election of Directors and until the Director's successor is elected and qualified.
     SECTION 3. Increase of Number. In case of any increase in the number of Directors between Annual Meetings of Stockholders, each additional Director shall be elected by the vote of two-thirds of the whole Board.
     SECTION 4. Resignation. A director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chair or the Secretary. The acceptance thereof shall not be necessary to make it effective; and such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, in the absence of such specification, it shall take effect upon the receipt thereof.
man of the Board
 
     SECTION 5. Vacancies. In case of any vacancy in the Board for any cause, the remaining Directors, by vote of majority of the whole board, may elect a successor to hold office for the unexpired term of the Director whose place is vacant.
     SECTION 6. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as the Board may designate. A notice of each regular meeting shall not be required.
     SECTION 7. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the direction of the Chair, or of one-third of the Directors.
man of the Board
     The Secretary shall give notice of such special meetings by mailing the same at least two days before the meeting, or by telegraphing the same at least one day before the meeting to each Director; but such notice may be waived by any Director. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting. At any meeting at which every Director shall be present, any business may be transacted, irrespective of notice.
     SECTION 8. Quorum. One-third of the Board shall constitute a quorum. If there be less than a quorum present at any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time.
     Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is quorum shall be necessary for the passage of any resolution.
     SECTION 9. Place of Meeting, Etc. The Directors shall hold the meetings, and may have an office or offices in such place or places within or outside the State of Delaware as the Board from time to time may determine.
     SECTION 10. Interested Directors; Quorum
 
     SECTION 1. Committees. The Board shall by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board, elect from the Directors a Strategic Direction Committee, an Audit Committee, an Environmental Policy Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Corporate Governance Committee and a Science and Technology Committee, and may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more additional committees, each committee to consist of one or more Directors. The Board shall designate for each of these committees a Chairman, and, if desired, a Vice Chairman, who shall continue as such during the pleasure of the Board. The number of members of each committee shall be determined from time to time by the Board.
     SECTION 2. Procedure. Each Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules. A majority of a committee shall constitute a quorum. In the absence or disqualification of a member of any committee, the members of such committee present at any meeting, and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
     SECTION 3. Reports To The Board. Each Committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and shall periodically report to the Board summaries of the Committee's significant completed actions and such other matters as requested by the Board.
  
     SECTION 4. Strategic Direction Committee. The Strategic Direction Committee shall review the Company's strategic direction and overall objectives and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
     SECTION 5. Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall employ an independent registered public accounting firm, subject to stockholder ratification at each annual meeting, review the adequacy of internal controls and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting, and shall have such power and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. None of the Members of the Audit Committee shall be an officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
     SECTION 6. Environmental Policy Committee. The Environmental Policy Committee shall review the Company's environmental policies and practices and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
     SECTION 7. Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall have the power and authority vested in it by the Compensation Plans of the Company and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. None of the members of the Compensation Committee shall be an officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
     SECTION 8. Corporate Governance Committee. The Corporate Governance Committee shall recommend to the Board nominees for election as directors of the Company. The Committee shall also have responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board related to matters on corporate governance and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. None of the members of the Corporate Governance Committee shall be an officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
     SECTION 9. Science and Technology Committee. The Science and Technology Committee shall monitor the state of science and technology capabilities within the Company and oversee the development of key technologies essential to the long-term success of the Company. The Committee shall also review the evolution of science and technology external to the Company for potential application within the Company.
 
     The Board shall elect an Office of the Chief Executive whose members shall include such officers as may be designated by the Board. The Office of the Chief Executive shall have responsibility for the strategic direction and operations of all the businesses of the Company and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
     All significant completed actions by the Office of the Chief Executive shall be reported to the Board at the next succeeding Board meeting, or at its meeting held in the month following the taking of such action.
     SECTION 1. Officers. The officers of the Company a Chair of the Board, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, an Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance and a Secretary.
Board shall appoint at least the following
shall be
:  
man
a Chief Executive Officer,
, a Treasurer
     The Board and the Office of the Chief Executive, may appoint such other officers as they deem necessary, who shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed, respectively, by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
     SECTION 2. Chair of the Board. The Chair of the Board preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board. The Chair may sign and execute all authorized bonds, contracts or other obligations, in the name of the Company, and with the Treasurer may sign all certificates of the shares in the capital stock of the Company.
man
man
shall
shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and, subject to the Board and the Office of the Chief Executive, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Company. The Chairman of the Board shall
man
     
SECTION 3. Chief Executive Officer. The office of Chief Executive Officer will normally be vested in the Chair, provided however, that the office of Chief Executive Officer may be established independent of the Chair at the discretion of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer, subject to the Board and the Office of the Chief Executive, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Company.
 
     SECTION . Executive Vice Presidents. Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
4
3
     SECTION . Vice Presidents. The Board or the Office of the Chief Executive may appoint one or more Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such title, powers and duties as may be assigned to such Vice President by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
5
4
     SECTION . Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance. The Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance shall be the chief financial officer of the Company, and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
6
5
     SECTION . Treasurer.. Under the general direction of the Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance, the Treasurer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Treasurer by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
7
6
The Board shall appoint a Treasurer
     SECTION . Assistant Treasurer. The Board or the Office of the Chief Executive may appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as may be assigned to such Assistant Treasurer by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
8
7
     SECTION . Controller. The Board may appoint a Controller. Under the general direction of the Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance, the Controller shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Controller by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
9
8
     SECTION . Assistant Controller. The Board or the Office of the Chief Executive may appoint one or more Assistant Controllers. Each Assistant Controller shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as may be assigned to such Assistant Controller by the Board or the Office of the Chief Executive.
10
9
     SECTION 1. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all the meetings of the Board and the minutes of all the meetings of the stockholders; the Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of meetings as required by law or these Bylaws; the Secretary shall affix the seal of the Company to any instruments when so required; and the Secretary shall in general perform all the corporate duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the Board or the Chair, and such other
1
0
man of the Board
 
duties as may be assigned to the Secretary by the Board or the Chair
man of the Board.
     SECTION 1. Assistant Secretary. The Board or the Office of the Chief Executive may appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries. Each Assistant Secretary shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as may be assigned to such Assistant Secretary by the Board or the Chair; and such Assistant Secretary shall affix the seal of the Company to any instruments when so required.
2
1
man of the Board
     SECTION 1. Removal. All officers may be removed or suspended at any time by the vote of the majority of the whole Board. All officers, agents and employees, other than officers elected or appointed by the Board, may be suspended or removed by the committee or by the officer appointing them.
3
2
     SECTION 1. Resignation. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairor the Secretary. Unless otherwise stated in such notice of resignation, the acceptance thereof shall not be necessary to make it effective; and such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, in the absence of such specification, it shall take effect upon the receipt thereof.
4
3
man of the Board
     SECTION 1. Vacancies. A vacancy in any office shall be filled in the same manner as provided for election or appointment to such office.
5
4
     SECTION 1. Indemnification of Directors or Officers. Each person who is or was a Director or officer of the Company (including the heirs, executors, administrators or estate of such person) shall be indemnified by the Company as of right to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware against any liability, cost or expense asserted against such Director or officer and incurred by such Director or officer by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director or officer. The right to indemnification conferred by this Section shall include the right to be paid by the Company the expenses incurred in defending in any action, suit or proceeding in advance of its final disposition, subject to the receipt by the Company of such undertakings as might be required of an indemnitee by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
     In any action by an indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder or by the Company to recover advances made hereunder, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified shall be on the Company. In such an action, neither the failure of the Company (including its Board, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination
 
that indemnification is proper, nor a determination by the Company that indemnification is improper, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified or, in the case of such an action brought by the indemnitee, be a defense thereto. If successful in whole or in part in such an action, an indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending same. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, maintain insurance at its expense, to protect itself and any such person against any such liability, cost or expense.
     SECTION 2. Certificate for Shares. The shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates unless the Company provides by appropriate action that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Company's stock shall be uncertificated. Notwithstanding the Company's taking such action, to the extent required by law, every holder of stock represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to a certificate representing the number of shares in the Company owned by such stockholder in such form, not inconsistent with the Certificate of Incorporation, as shall be prescribed by the Board. Certificates representing shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be signed by the Chair or an Executive Vice President and the Treasurer, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Any or all signatures on the certificate, including those of the_ Transfer Agent and Registrar, may be facsimile.
man of the Board
     The name of the person owning the shares represented thereby, with the number of such shares and the date of issue, shall be entered on the Company's books.
     All certificates surrendered to the Company shall be cancelled, and no new certificates shall be issued until the former certificate for the same number of shares of the same class shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except that the Board may determine, from time to time, the conditions and provisions on which new certificates may be used in substitution of any certificates that may have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
     SECTION 3. Transfer of Shares. Shares in the capital stock of the Company shall be transferred by the record holder thereof, in person, or by any such person's attorney upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares.
     SECTION 4. Regulations. The Board also may make rules and regulations concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Company.
     The Board may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars of transfers, and may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of a transfer agent and a registrar of transfer.
 
     SECTION 5. Record Date of Stockholders. The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Company after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     SECTION 6. Corporate Seal. The seal of the Company shall be circular in form, containing the words "E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND CO." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "FOUNDED" and "SEAL," and the date "1802."
     The seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary. A duplicate of the seal may be kept and used by the Executive Vice President  DuPont Finance, any Vice President  DuPont Finance, the Treasurer, or by any Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer.
     The Board shall have the power to adopt, amend and repeal the Bylaws of the Company, by a vote of the majority of the whole Board, at any regular or special meeting of the Board, provided that notice of intention to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws in whole or in part shall have been given at the next preceding meeting, or, without any such notice, by the vote of two-thirds of the whole Board.


