FILE:DD/DD-8K-20080314084831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
In a New York City meeting on March 14, 2008 with securities analysts and investors, the Registrant provided the "DuPont 2007 Annual Review" which is furnished as an Exhibit.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     The following exhibit is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K:
     99.1   DuPont 2007 Annual Review and Appendix  Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
March 14, 2008

 
 
Chairman's Message
To DuPont Shareholders:
DuPont delivered strong results in 2007, overcoming the challenges of lower U.S. housing and auto demand and higher cost ingredients. Our strength came from rapid revenue growth in emerging markets, our Agriculture & Nutrition segment, higher returns on innovation, and continued cost and capital productivity gains. There are powerful reasons why our shareholders should view their investment in DuPont with confidence for 2008 and beyond.
We recognize that these are challenging times, as the macroeconomic and global political environment creates concerns among investors about the outlook for business profitability and growth for companies across the industrial, consumer and service sectors.
While such concerns are real, the multi-year transformation of DuPont and our improved performance have put us in a better position to meet these challenges.
Our Recent Performance
Aligned with our acceleration plan announced in November 2005, DuPont has:
In addition, our metrics for new product launches, patents filed and granted, and sales from new products have all moved significantly upward in the past three years.
Our entire team is intensely focused on meeting our near-term financial targets in sales, earnings and cash. We are confident we can deliver attractive growth in earnings in 2008, and see even stronger growth in the years to followcontinuing our improvement of the last three years.
Our Market-Based Science Is Delivering Growth
DuPont is a science company. The core of our capability and competitive advantage is market-driven scientific discovery and new product innovation. Our strengthened science capability has been the driving force behind the transformation of DuPont over the past decade, and has reshaped our businesses. In particular, DuPont is leading the rapid convergence of biology and chemistry to create additional competitive advantage and open new global markets for superior-performing products.
Today over 5,000 DuPont scientists worldwide are delivering high margin, high value-added products that are aimed directly at unmet market needs. Sales of these products, which I will outline in the next section, have been instrumental in helping us overcome higher energy and ingredient costs, including record high oil prices.
Based on important measures such as new product introductions, U.S. patent applications filed and U.S. patents granted, DuPont is demonstrating superior R&D performance, which helped boost average selling prices about 3 to 5 percent annually for the past three years. In 2007, 36 percent of our revenuesor about $10.5 billionwere generated by products introduced in the last five yearsup from 24 percent in 2001. In the face of a near tripling of oil prices, this has been critical.
DuPont has a rich pipeline of new products, particularly in Agriculture, Safety & Protection, Electronics, and applied biosciences, with more projects underway than ever before. Our applied biosciences businesses promise significant future growth, particularly in biofuels and biomaterials where we have a clear technology leadership position and strong partnerships that will facilitate market access. These strengths are backed by a world-class intellectual property portfolio in biotechnology.
Fundamentals for Growth Continue in 2008 and Beyond
In 2008, our global market presence and change in business mix since the 2001 U.S. recession will make us much more resilient to the impacts of a recession in any one country. This also gives us confidence we can deliver attractive earnings growth in 2008. Let me explain why:
 
Looking beyond 2008...through 2010 we see clear potential for average double-digit earnings growth driven by advances in several strategic areas:
We Are Committed to Delivering Increased Shareholder Value
Behind DuPont's improved resultsfrom market analysis to scientific discovery to disciplined sourcing, production and go-to-market decision-makingare the highly skilled 60,000 dedicated employees of DuPont around the world.
Further energized by our improved results, DuPont's leadership team is the strongest it has ever been and is eager to exceed new and higher goals.
The entire DuPont organization is determined to make your investment in DuPont a lucrative and lasting one. We appreciate your ownership of our company and remain committed to delivering superior results compared to your other investment alternatives.
Net Sales
Pretax Operating Income Margin
1
Earnings Per Share
1
Return on Invested Capital
1, 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.
Reconciliations of Segment Pre-Tax Operating Income (PTOI) as a Percent of Segment Sales
Reconciliations of Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
Reconciliations of Return on Average Invested Capital (ROIC)
(1)


