FILE:DD/DD-8K-20080122160217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
     On January 22, 2008, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 22, 2008
 
Highlights
     "DuPont's strong earnings growth in the fourth quarter reflects our global presence and the breadth of our product offerings," said Charles O. Holliday, Jr., DuPont chairman and chief executive officer. "We delivered 14 percent earnings per share growth for the year despite weakness in certain U.S. markets and higher ingredient costs."
 
Global Consolidated Sales
     Consolidated net sales increased 11 percent to $7.0 billion in the fourth quarter. Outside the United States, sales increased 14 percent, boosted by 20 percent growth in emerging markets, particularly Brazil, China and India. A summary of fourth quarter 2007 worldwide and regional sales performance is shown below.
 
Net Income and Earnings Per Share
     Net income for the fourth quarter 2007 was $545 million, or $.60 per share, including a net benefit of $23 million, or $.03 per share, for significant items. Fourth quarter 2006 net income was $871 million, or $.94 per share, including a net benefit of $449 million, or $.49 per share, for significant items. See attached Schedule B for a listing of significant items in both periods.
     The table below shows the variances in fourth quarter 2007 earnings per share (EPS) versus fourth quarter 2006.
     These results are higher than the outlook issued by the company on January 9, largely due to finalization of the company's tax rate and higher business performance.
 
Business Segment Performance
     Segment sales and related percentage variances for fourth quarter 2007 versus the prior year quarter are shown in the table below.
     Segment PTOI for the fourth quarter 2007 was $804 million versus $576 million in the fourth quarter 2006. Excluding significant items, segment PTOI increased 30 percent from $721 million to $937 million.
     Current quarter segment PTOI, excluding significant items, and comparisons with prior-year quarter are shown below.
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME EXCLUDING SIGNIFICANT ITEMS*
     The following are business segment highlights, excluding significant items, comparing fourth quarter 2007 results to fourth quarter 2006.
Agriculture & Nutrition
 
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
     Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
Outlook
     The company today reaffirmed its 2008 full-year earnings outlook of $3.35 to $3.55 per share announced on January 9. For the first quarter 2008, the company expects to earn $1.12 to $1.17 per share. In the first quarter 2007, the company earned $1.07 per share, excluding a $.06 significant item charge.
     In a letter to shareholders posted today, Holliday highlighted the company's recent improvements in profitability, return on capital and productivity. Holliday also outlined how the
 
company plans to achieve higher profitability in 2008 and beyond by making advances in agriculture, safety and protection, emerging markets and cost productivity. The letter is available at www.dupont.com.
     "We are confident we can deliver attractive growth in earnings in 2008, and see even stronger growth in the years to follow  continuing our improvement of the last three years," Holliday said.
     The company announced that it will host an investors meeting March 14 at 9 a.m. (EST) in New York City. Details for the meeting are available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
     Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule D.
     DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
01/22/08
 
SCHEDULE A
See Notes to Schedules of Significant Items for additional information.
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
(1)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate


