FILE:DD/DD-8K-20080722162543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 22, 2008, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 22, 2008
 
Highlights
               "DuPont captured strong growth in agriculture and emerging markets and grew earnings despite accelerating raw material and energy costs in the second quarter. We are executing well in a challenging environment," said DuPont Chairman and CEO Charles O. Holliday, Jr. "DuPont's strategic transformation in recent years is enabling us to successfully adapt to the new reality of significantly higher commodity costs and we remain focused on achieving our 2010 accelerated growth plan."
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
               Consolidated net sales grew 12 percent to $8.8 billion. Sales outside the United States grew 18 percent and accounted for 60 percent of worldwide sales. Sales in emerging markets grew 23 percent. A summary of second quarter 2008 worldwide and regional sales performance is shown in the table below.
               Net income for the second quarter of 2008 was $1,078 million, or $1.18 per share. Second quarter 2007 net income was $972 million, or $1.04 per share.
Earnings Per Share
               The table below shows the variances in second quarter 2008 earnings per share (EPS) versus second quarter 2007. The 13 percent increase in earnings per share reflects higher local prices, favorable currency impact, and volume growth outside the United States. These gains were partially offset by higher ingredient costs and increased spending for growth initiatives and capacity expansions.
 
 
Business Segment Performance
               Segment sales and related variances versus the second quarter of 2007 are shown in the table below:
 
               Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) was $1.7 billion, up 8 percent versus the second quarter 2007, as shown below:
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME
 
               The following are business segment highlights comparing second quarter 2008 results to second quarter 2007.
Agriculture & Nutrition
Coatings & Color Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
               Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
 
Outlook
               The company increased the lower end of its full year 2008 earnings outlook, narrowing the range to $3.45 to $3.55 per share. The previous earnings outlook was a range of $3.40 to $3.55. First half 2008 earnings per share increased significantly versus prior year, principally reflecting strong growth in agriculture earnings, which are concentrated in the first half of the year. The company expects second half 2008 earnings per share to be modestly lower than last year due to the impact of higher energy and ingredient costs, lower demand in certain developed markets, lower income from asset sales, and a higher base tax rate. The company expects second half 2008 earnings per share to be about equally split between the third and fourth quarters.
               "DuPont is executing extremely well in a tougher environment," Holliday said. "We remain focused on achieving the growth objectives of our 2010 Acceleration Plan."
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
               Management believes that measures of income excluding significant items ("non-GAAP" information) are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule D.
               DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pretax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
As shown above, the "Total Exchange (Gain)/Loss" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position (Gain)/Loss" and the "Hedging Program (Gain)/Loss."
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.


