FILE:DD/DD-8K-20081021160319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 21, 2008, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 21, 2008
 
Highlights
          "Our businesses performed well in the third quarter despite hurricanes and slower economies around the world, reflecting the strong position of our science-based products in production agriculture, photovoltaics and emerging markets," said DuPont Chairman and CEO Charles O. Holliday, Jr.
 
Weather-Related Impacts
          The company recorded a one-time pre-tax charge of $227 million or $.16 per share in the third quarter for costs associated with clean up, restoration of manufacturing operations, and lost inventory resulting from hurricanes. Storm surge caused significant damage at the company's plant in Orange, Texas. The company declared "force majeure" for ethylene copolymers and certain other ethylene-based product lines. In addition to the $.16 per share charge, the company estimates business interruption impacts from the hurricanes at about $.02 per share in the third quarter and about $.10 per share for the fourth quarter.
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
          Consolidated net sales grew 9 percent to $7.3 billion. Sales outside the United States grew 16 percent and accounted for 68 percent of worldwide sales. Sales in emerging markets grew 25 percent. A 9 percent increase in local selling prices more than offset lower global sales volumes resulting from weak demand in motor vehicle and construction-related markets, and hurricane disruptions. The table below shows worldwide and regional sales performance of third quarter 2008 versus third quarter 2007.
          Net income for third quarter 2008 was $367 million versus $526 million in the prior year. Excluding the hurricane charge in the current quarter and a prior-year litigation charge, net income was $513 million versus $552 million in the prior-year quarter.
 
Earnings Per Share
     The table below shows the variances in third quarter 2008 earnings per share (EPS) versus third quarter 2007, excluding significant items. The 5 percent decline in earnings per share, excluding significant items, principally reflects higher costs for raw materials, energy and freight, lower sales volume and spending for growth initiatives. Higher selling prices, favorable currency and lower taxes contributed to earnings in the quarter.
 
 
Business Segment Performance
          Segment sales and related variances versus third quarter 2007 are shown in the table below: SEGMENT SALES*
 
          Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) was $682 million, down 26 percent versus third quarter 2007, as shown in the table below. Excluding significant items, total segment PTOI for third quarter 2008 was $909 million versus $956 million in the prior year, down 5 percent.
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME
 
 
The following are business segment highlights comparing sales and PTOI for third quarter 2008 versus third quarter 2007.
Agriculture & Nutrition
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center web site at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
          The company expects fourth quarter 2008 earnings to be in the range of $.20 to $.25 per share, excluding significant items. The outlook includes expected earnings impact of about $.10 per share from hurricane-related business interruptions, principally the loss of production and sales from the company's Orange, Texas plant. The outlook also reflects expected weakening demand in North American and Western European markets. Based on the fourth quarter estimate, the company expects to earn between $3.25 and $3.30 per share for the full year 2008, excluding significant items. Comparable full-year 2007 earnings were $3.28 per share. The company's previous outlook, issued July 22, 2008, was $3.45 to $3.55 per share.
          "Our leadership teams around the world are actively engaged with customers and suppliers, making appropriate and timely adjustments to any changes in demand," Holliday said. "We enter these challenging times in a better position than any prior economic slowdown. Our cash position, borrowing capability, and balance sheet are strong and we remain intensely focused on our operating cash flows."
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
          Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as income excluding significant items, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in Schedule D.
          DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations.
Forward-Looking Statements:
10/21/08
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Calculation of Segment PTOI as a Percent of Segment Sales
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pretax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
As shown above, the "Total Exchange (Gain)/Loss" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position (Gain)/Loss" and the "Hedging Program (Gain)/Loss."
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.


