FILE:DD/DD-8K-20090310165202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     Effective March 4, 2009, the Company amended its Bylaws as follows:
Article I, Section 6 was amended to provide that each director nominee in a non-contested election must be elected by a majority of the votes cast, meaning that the votes cast "for" exceed the votes cast "against." Previously, the Bylaws provided that all elections be decided by plurality vote. In a contested election, directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast; therefore, the director nominees receiving the highest relative number of "for" votes will be elected.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amendment to the Company's Bylaws, which is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
March 10, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
     SECTION 6. Voting. Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting shall be entitled to one vote for each share held of record, in person, by written proxy or by any permissible means of electronic transmission, provided that such electronic transmission must either contain, or be submitted with, information from which it can be determined that it was authorized by the stockholder. Upon the demand of any stockholder, such stockholder shall be entitled to vote by ballot.
All elections and questions shall be decided by plurality vote, except as otherwise required by statute.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation:


