FILE:DD/DD-8K-20090721171020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2009, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 21, 2009
 
Highlights:
                    "Our aggressive actions to improve productivity and reduce costs across the company are paying off as we contend with continued weak demand in key segments," said DuPont CEO Ellen J. Kullman. "Strong performance by our Agriculture & Nutrition segment combined with positive earnings contributions from all other business segments resulted in a solid second quarter given the continuing impact of the global recession. We will continue to rigorously apply the financial discipline and operational excellence needed during one of the most challenging economic periods ever seen."
 
Net Income and Global Consolidated Sales
                    Net income attributable to DuPont for the second quarter 2009 was $417 million versus $1,078 million in the prior year. The decline in net income principally reflects significantly lower sales volume, current quarter restructuring charges, and adverse currency impact. Consolidated net sales in the second quarter of $6.9 billion were 22 percent lower than prior year, principally reflecting 19 percent lower volume and a net 1 percent reduction due to portfolio changes. Local prices were 3 percent higher, largely driven by higher seed prices, but were more than offset by a 5 percent negative impact from currency exchange rates. Lower sales volume reflects the recessionary impact across global markets served by DuPont. The table below shows sales by region and variances versus second quarter 2008.
Earnings Per Share
                    The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the second quarter. The earnings decline principally reflects lower sales volume and capacity utilization, and the impact of the stronger dollar, partly offset by higher local selling prices and lower costs. Fixed cost increases for growth initiatives and pensions were more than offset by $335 million of cost savings achieved from savings projects and restructuring, with a net fixed cost reduction of $42 million or $.04 per share. This excludes fixed cost reductions resulting from lower volume and currency impact.
 
 
Business Segment Performance
                    The tables below show second quarter 2009 segment sales and related variances versus prior year, and pre-tax operating income (loss). Total segment operating performance reflects pre-tax operating income (PTOI) of $872 million, a 49 percent decline versus prior year. Excluding significant items, PTOI was $1,087 million, down 37 percent, as PTOI increases versus prior year for Agriculture & Nutrition and pharmaceuticals were more than offset by substantial earnings declines for the other four segments.
 
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's operating segments, comparing sales and PTOI excluding significant items for second quarter 2009 versus second quarter 2008. All references to selling price changes are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
Agriculture & Nutrition
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
 
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
2009 Cost Reduction and Productivity Progress
          As previously announced, DuPont has expanded actions to address global market conditions and further enhance its long-term competitiveness, which include higher 2009 targets for cost and capital reductions. Below is a progress summary of the company's actions.
Outlook
                    The company reaffirmed its 2009 earnings outlook range of $1.70 to $2.10 per share, excluding significant items. The outlook anticipates prevailing weak demand across key markets other than agriculture with gradual improvement from current recessionary levels during the remainder of 2009.
 
Favorable conditions are expected in southern hemisphere agriculture markets with the benefit of increased market share for new products and related higher selling prices. The full-year free cash flow outlook remains $2.5 billion. The company will continue aggressive actions to reduce costs and capital expenditures, in addition to maintaining an appropriate level of investment for high-growth, high-margin businesses including seed products and photovoltaics.
                    "Most markets remain dynamic and challenging, but the actions we are taking position DuPont well for the eventual economic recovery, with a strong balance sheet, established global reach and science-based products and services that meet customers' evolving needs," Kullman said.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
                    Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
                    DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
: This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
Forward-Looking Statements
7/21/09
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlooks
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliations of EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pretax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain/(Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain/(Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain/(Loss)."
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.


