FILE:DD/DD-8K-20090929162355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Richard R. Goodmanson will retire as Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer of the Company effective September 30, 2009. To ensure his active participation on behalf of the Company in ongoing litigation and other business matters, the Company has entered into a three-year consulting agreement with Mr. Goodmanson, effective as of his retirement, pursuant to which he shall be paid a $200,000 annual retainer plus a $2,000 per diem payment when actively involved in litigation support and business projects on behalf of the Company. The agreement with Mr. Goodmanson contains customary provisions, including a restriction on his ability to take on any work that may create a conflict of interest, non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, protection of confidential information and reimbursement of expenses associated with his performance under the agreement.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Goodmanson's retirement, and the Compensation Committee's approval of the consulting agreement in anticipation thereof, were each reported previously on Forms 8-K filed with the Commission on August 13, 2009 and October 6, 2008, respectively.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
     99.1 Consulting Agreement with Richard R. Goodmanson
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
September 29, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
September 22, 2009
Richard Goodmanson
Dear Richard:
     Per our discussion, I am pleased to offer you a consulting agreement with DuPont on the following terms and conditions.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
(a) be employed by or consult with, render services to, or engage in any Competing Business;
(b) promote, solicit or induce for yourself or any other person or entity the sale of any Competing Product(s) to any entity or person who is or has been a customer of the company since September 30, 2004; and
(c) solicit or induce for any Competing Business the employment of any person who is now, or any time after the date hereof, employed by the company.
For the purposes of this paragraph,
"Competing Business" means any business which is engaged in, or about to become engaged in research, development, production, marketing, or selling of a Competing Product(s).
"Competing Product(s)" means product(s), process(es), or service(s) which competes directly or indirectly within the company's product(s), process(es), or service(s) with which you have worked, either as employee of the company or an independent contractor, since September 30, 2004, or about which you have acquired the company's trade secret, technical or non-technical confidential information.
In the event of any uncertainty over whether a business constitutes a Competing Business or whether product(s), process(es) or service(s) constitute a Competing Product(s), such determination(s) shall be made by the Company's Chief Executive Officer in her sole discretion.
 
     If the foregoing is acceptable to you, please acknowledge your agreement by signing the enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided, and returning the signed copy to me for our files.
AGREED AND ACCEPTED:
Richard R. Goodmanson


