FILE:DD/DD-8K-20090421152642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 21, 2009, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K. The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 21, 2009
 
Highlights:
          "Our strong first quarter performance in Agriculture & Nutrition and pharmaceuticals, combined with gains from our pricing discipline and cost and capital reductions, helped to offset the impact of the largest decline in industrial demand in decades," said DuPont CEO Ellen J. Kullman. "As we committed to do in December, we are addressing the more challenging economic conditions with further steps to aggressively manage costs, enhance productivity and operate even more efficiently."
          "Our teams are working with urgency and agility to stay ahead of the worst global recession since the 1930s," Kullman said. "Our preemptive actions will preserve our strong cash generating capability, while positioning our businesses for improved profitability as global markets rebound."
 
Net Income and Global Consolidated Sales
          Net income attributable to DuPont for the first quarter 2009 was $488 million versus $1,191 million in the prior year. Consolidated net sales in the first quarter of $6.9 billion were 20 percent lower than prior year, reflecting 19 percent lower volume and a net 1 percent reduction due to portfolio changes. Five percent higher local prices were offset by a 5 percent negative impact from currency. Lower sales volume principally reflects global declines in construction, motor vehicle production and consumer spending, which was magnified by inventory de-stocking across most supply chains. The table below shows worldwide and regional sales performance for first quarter 2009 versus first quarter 2008.
Earnings Per Share
          The table below shows the variances in first quarter 2009 earnings per share (EPS) versus first quarter 2008.
 
 
Business Segment Performance
          The tables below show first quarter 2009 segment sales and related variances versus prior year, and pre-tax operating income (loss). Segment operating performance reflects pre-tax operating income (PTOI) improvements versus prior year for Agriculture & Nutrition and pharmaceuticals which were more than offset by substantial earnings declines for the other four segments. The earnings decline for those segments, principally reflecting a combined 30 percent drop in sales volume versus prior year, was partly offset by about $250 million in companywide fixed cost reduction programs.
 
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's operating segments, comparing sales and PTOI (loss) for first quarter 2009 versus first quarter 2008. All references to selling price changes are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
Agriculture & Nutrition
Coatings & Color Technologies
Electronic & Communication Technologies
Performance Materials
Safety & Protection
Additional information on segment performance is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at .
www.dupont.com
 
2009 Cost Reduction and Productivity Actions
          DuPont is expanding actions to address weaker global market conditions and further enhance its long-term competitiveness, which include higher 2009 targets for cost and capital reductions. Below is a summary of the company's additional actions:
Outlook
          The company's 2009 earnings outlook has been revised downward to a range of $1.70 to $2.10 per share, excluding any significant items. The revision anticipates that weak demand across key markets will continue throughout 2009. While favorable conditions in global agriculture markets and the benefit of cost reductions and lower raw material costs are expected, the protracted recessionary environment and the impact of currency are expected to limit the company's revenue growth. DuPont will continue aggressive actions to reduce costs and capital expenditures, in addition to maintaining an appropriate level of investment for high-growth, high-margin businesses including seed products and photovoltaics.
          For the second quarter 2009, the company anticipates revenue growth to be limited by continuing weak demand in non-agriculture markets, the negative impact of currency, with some sequential improvement due to less de-stocking across multiple value chains. DuPont's Agriculture & Nutrition segment anticipates modest year-over-year revenue growth driven by pricing and volume gains partly offset by currency. The company will continue its aggressive cost and capital reduction programs.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
          Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company. Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
          DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
: This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
Forward-Looking Statements
4/21/09
 
SCHEDULE A
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
There were no significant items for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
SCHEDULE D
Reconciliations of EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statement
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pretax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above.
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook


