FILE:DD/DD-8K-20090813165955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.02
On August 11, 2009 the Board of Directors of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("Company") took the following actions:
The Board's Compensation Committee also approved an increase in Mr. Fanandakis' annual salary from $387,708 to $500,000 effective September 1, 2009 to reflect his appointments. Consistent therewith, Mr. Fanandakis' target short-term incentive award for 2009 under the Company's Equity and Incentive Plan will increase from $328,500 to $464,100.
Mr. Fanandakis was named to his current position, Group Vice President- Applied BioSciences, in January 2008. Prior to that, he was vice president and general manager- DuPont Chemical Solutions Enterprise from September 2003 through September 2006 and vice president- Corporate Plans from October 2006 through December 2007.
Jeffrey L. Keefer, EVP and Chief Financial Officer, will remain EVP and transition from the position of Chief Financial Officer to assume leadership responsibility for the Company's Performance Coatings business, corporate strategy development, Information Technology and overall cost and working capital productivity efforts effective November 1, 2009.
Richard R. Goodmanson, EVP and Chief Operating Officer has elected to retire from the Company effective September 30, 2009. As previously reported on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6, 2008, Mr. Goodmanson will remain with the Company as a consultant for three years following his retirement.
Other Events
Item 8.01
On August 13, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing a number of organizational changes, including redefining its external financial reporting to aggregated segments. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
August 13, 2009

          WILMINGTON, Del., Aug. 13, 2009  DuPont CEO Ellen Kullman today announced actions supporting the company's commitments to customers, sustainable growth, and delivering revenue and earnings growth through market-driven science.
          The company will sharply focus its innovation engines on four emerging trends to meet the increasing demand for food; protect people and the environment; decrease dependence on fossil fuels; and capitalize on the growth of emerging markets. In addition, DuPont will strengthen its alignment with customers and markets; drive disciplined scientific innovation directly from market needs; increase transparency and accountability for results with a simplified organization; and continue its intense focus on productivity. In support of the renewed focus, the company also announced several leadership appointments.
          "DuPont's leadership in market-driven science uniquely positions the company to capitalize on four global trends that will define the coming decades. The actions we are taking today will give our organization the focus and responsiveness it needs to deliver sustainable customer solutions to the demands created by those trends," Kullman said.
          "The people of DuPont successfully managed through the extraordinary economic conditions of the past year and delivered on our commitments for the first half of 2009," Kullman added. "DuPont will meet the economic recovery as a stronger, faster and more agile global competitor. We will accomplish this by driving responsibility and accountability ever-closer to our customers and regions, providing greater transparency to our progress and results, streamlining our organization, and maintaining an intense focus on productivity."
Streamlined Organization
          Key components of DuPont's more streamlined organization include:
 
Leadership Appointments
          Effective Oct. 1, the following senior leaders and assignments are part of the organizational alignment:
          The company announced the following presidents will lead its 14 businesses, effective Oct. 1:
 
          "Our new leadership team consists of people who have demonstrated a sharp focus on increasing the value we provide customers and the speed with which we execute," Kullman said. "Together, we are eager to capture our opportunities for sustainable and profitable growth, enhance our speed and accountability, and extend DuPont's legacy of market-driven innovation."
Greater Transparency
          Effective Oct. 1, the company will redefine its external financial reporting to the following aggregated segments:
          DuPont is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
8/13/09


