FILE:DD/DD-8K-20100427140320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
       
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 27, 2010, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
99.1         Press Release dated April 27, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
April 27, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's first-quarter 2010 earnings per share were $1.24, compared to $.54 in the prior year.
 
                 
Sales were $8.5 billion, up 23 percent versus prior year.  This reflects 19 percent higher volume, 2 percent higher local selling prices, a 3 percent benefit from currency and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.
 
                 
Asia Pacific sales were $1.6 billion with volume up 65 percent in the quarter.  Sales in Performance Polymers, Electronics & Communications, and Titanium Technologies were particularly strong.  Volumes in emerging markets were also strong, up 28 percent.
 
                 
Raw material, energy and freight costs, adjusted for currency and volume, were about 2 percent lower versus prior year.  The company expects these costs to trend higher as the year progresses, reflecting a full-year increase of about 5 percent.
 
                 
Spending increases for growth initiatives, primarily in Agriculture & Nutrition, and higher non-cash pension expense contributed to an increase in total fixed costs versus 2009.  Continued productivity projects and restructuring savings improved fixed costs as a percentage of sales to 37 percent, which is comparable to pre-recession levels.
 
                 
Pharmaceuticals first-quarter pre-tax income was $221 million, about $60 million higher than anticipated.  The company expects full-year Pharmaceuticals pre-tax income of $360-$400 million.
 
                 
DuPont increases its full-year 2010 earnings guidance to a range of $2.50 to $2.70 per share.  The previous guidance was $2.15 to $2.45 per share.
 
"Our intense focus on customers, sustained R&D investments and productivity improvements are delivering growth," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "Macro trends drove first-quarter demand for our science-based innovations, and DuPont was ready.  The actions taken last year are benefiting the company as we emerge stronger in 2010."
 
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
First-quarter 2010 consolidated net sales of $8.5 billion were 23 percent higher than the prior year.  This reflects 19 percent higher volume, 2 percent higher local selling prices, and a 3 percent positive impact from currency exchange rates, partly offset by a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus first quarter 2009.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Net income attributable to DuPont for the first quarter 2010 was $1,129 million versus $488 million in the prior year.  The improvement reflects significantly higher sales volume, increased manufacturing capacity utilization, higher selling prices, currency benefit and lower raw material costs, partly offset by fixed cost increases for growth investments and higher non-cash pension expense.  The company's productivity and cost-cutting actions are essentially tracking according to plan.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the first quarter.
 
 
*Excluding volume & currency impact
 
** Principally exchange gains/losses (.02) and Pharmaceuticals (.02)
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows first quarter 2010 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for first quarter 2010 was $1,803 million compared to a first quarter 2009 PTOI of $913 million.  Segment PTOI (loss) is shown below.
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing first quarter 2010 with first quarter 2009, for sales and PTOI.  All references to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
 Sales of $3.2 billion increased $180 million, or 6 percent, reflecting 5 percent higher selling prices and 1 percent volume growth.  Segment sales reflect higher North America seed volumes and seed price gains in each region, partially offset by delays in the European planting season.  Crop protection product volumes were down slightly reflecting northern hemisphere sales pattern shifts, which were partly offset by strong global sales for Rynaxypyr
.  Food and nutrition product sales were up modestly.  PTOI of $941 million improved 10 percent from higher selling prices, principally due to currency, and higher volumes.
 
Electronics & Communications
 Sales of $631 million increased $266 million, or 73 percent, reflecting 60 percent higher volumes and 13 percent higher selling prices.  The higher volumes were primarily due to strong global demand led by Asia Pacific, reflecting broad-based recovery, which were strongest in photovoltaics and semi-fab materials.  The higher selling prices reflect pass-through of higher metals prices.  PTOI of $105 million was up $139 million primarily due to significantly higher volumes.
 
Performance Chemicals
 Sales of $1.4 billion increased $344 million, or 32 percent, reflecting a 30 percent increase in volume and 3 percent higher selling prices.  The sales increase was primarily driven by strong continued recovery in titanium dioxide and fluoropolymers, with robust demand for refrigerants including strong adoption rates for ISCEON
 as a preferred retrofit for R22.  PTOI was $190 million, an improvement of $146 million, primarily due to higher volumes.
 
Performance Coatings
 Sales of $902 million increased $170 million, or 23 percent, reflecting 17 percent higher volumes and a 6 percent increase in selling prices.  Volumes reflect higher demand in global automotive OEM markets, and strong demand in Asia Pacific.  PTOI was $45 million, up $120 million, reflecting higher volumes, lower raw material costs, and fixed cost productivity improvements including restructuring programs.
 
Performance Materials
 Sales of $1.5 billion increased $592 million, or 63 percent, reflecting 56 percent higher volumes and a 7 percent increase in selling prices.  The higher volumes were led by improvement in automotive, industrial, consumer and electronic markets, with strong volume recovery in all regions, led by Asia Pacific and Europe.  PTOI was $230 million, an improvement of $376 million, primarily driven by higher volumes, lower raw material costs, and fixed cost productivity improvements including restructuring programs.
 
Safety & Protection
 Sales of $789 million increased $71 million, or 10 percent, principally reflecting an 8 percent increase in volumes and 2 percent higher selling prices.  The increase in volumes was primarily due to recovery in the automotive and industrial markets, coupled with moderate strengthening in construction markets.  PTOI was $102 million, an improvement of $38 million.  The increase primarily reflects higher volumes and lower raw material costs.
 
Additional information is available
on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
DuPont increased its full-year earnings guidance to a range of $2.50-$2.70 per share from its previous range of $2.15-$2.45 per share.  The new outlook reflects expected stronger sales growth and improved pre-tax operating margins, supported by continuing global economic expansion with particularly strong demand in Asia Pacific.  The company expects free cash flow to be about $200 million higher than originally anticipated, and has increased its outlook from greater than $1.5 billion to more than $1.7 billion.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont is a science-based products and services company.  Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere.  Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
 
4/27/10
SCHEDULE A
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
There were no significant items for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
 
(1)   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
(2)   Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects. See Schedule D for additional information.
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain/(Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain/(Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain/(Loss)."
 
(1)   The net exchange loss for the three months ended March 31, 2010 includes a $36 pre-tax ($35 after-tax) exchange loss associated with the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar.
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above.
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 


