FILE:DD/DD-8K-20100727152820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2010, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's second-quarter 2010 reported earnings per share were $1.26, compared to $.46 in the prior year.  Excluding significant items from both periods, earnings for the second quarter were $1.17 per share versus $.61 per share in the prior year (see Schedule B for significant items).
 
                 
Sales were $8.6 billion, up 26 percent versus the prior year.  This reflects 21 percent higher volume, 5 percent higher local selling prices, a 1 percent benefit from currency, and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.  Emerging markets sales increased 32 percent.
 
                 
All segments had double-digit sales increases, with more than 25 percent volume growth in the Electronics & Communications, Performance Materials, and Safety & Protection segments.
 
                 
Agriculture & Nutrition delivered 16 percent sales growth and 31 percent higher pre-tax earnings.  North American seed business performance underpinned this growth with both price and volume increases, marking another year of solid share gains in both corn and soybeans.
 
                 
Planned fixed-cost increases for Agriculture & Nutrition, higher non-cash pension expense and an asset impairment charge were partly offset by productivity projects and restructuring savings, which remain on track.  Fixed costs were 38 percent of sales.
 
                 
DuPont increased its full-year 2010 earnings guidance range to $2.90 to $3.05 per share, excluding significant items.  The previous range was $2.50 to $2.70 per share.
 
"Our outstanding focus and disciplined execution delivered excellent results," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman. "DuPont's global team worked closely with customers, applying the breadth and depth of our science capabilities to meet market needs. We grew sales across every segment. Several businesses, including electronics and titanium dioxide, delivered results that far exceeded pre-recession levels. We continue to hit our productivity and cost-control targets, and remain highly disciplined in creating operating leverage to further grow the company."
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Second-quarter 2010 consolidated net sales of $8.6 billion were 26 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 21 percent higher volume, 5 percent higher local selling prices, a 1 percent positive impact from currency exchange rates, and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes. The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the second quarter 2009.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Net income attributable to DuPont for the second quarter 2010 was $1.2 billion versus $0.4 billion in 2009.  Excluding significant items in both years, net income attributable to DuPont of $1.1 billion increased $514 million, or 92 percent, from $558 million in the second quarter 2009.  The increase principally reflects significantly higher sales volume, higher local selling prices, increased manufacturing capacity utilization, and a lower tax rate.  The increases were partly offset by lower Pharmaceuticals income and higher fixed costs.  Raw material, energy and transportation costs were 3 percent higher than second quarter 2009 after adjusting for volume and currency impacts.  The company's productivity and cost-cutting actions are tracking on plan.  This quarter also benefitted from insurance recoveries and minor asset sales.
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the second quarter.
 
 
* 
Fixed and variable costs exclude volume & currency impact; Fixed costs include $(.02) asset impairment charges
** Includes $(.16) lower Pharma income, partly offset by $.04 net gains on sales of assets, $.03 insurance recoveries and $.02 exchange gains
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows second quarter 2010 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*      Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for second quarter 2010 was $1,655 million compared to second quarter 2009 PTOI of $872 million.  Excluding significant items, second quarter 2010 PTOI was $1,655 million versus $1,087 million in the prior year.  Despite a $202 million decline in PTOI from Pharmaceuticals, total PTOI increased 52 percent. PTOI for each segment, excluding significant items, is shown below.
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing second quarter 2010 with second quarter 2009, for sales and PTOI excluding significant items.  All references to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition 
Sales of $3.0 billion increased $417 million, or 16 percent, principally from 12 percent volume growth and 5 percent higher selling prices.  Segment sales primarily reflect North American seed share and price gains.  Crop protection volume increased across all product lines with particularly strong sales of Rynaxypyr
 insecticides and fungicides in Latin America.  Segment PTOI of $762 million improved 31 percent, principally from higher volume, partly offset by increased spending for growth initiatives.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Sales of $657 million increased $228 million, or 53 percent, reflecting 48 percent higher volume and 5 percent higher selling prices.  Higher volume was primarily due to growth in all regions, particularly in Asia Pacific, continued global economic recovery, and strong demand across all market segments, particularly in photovoltaics.  Higher selling prices resulted from pass-through of metals prices.  PTOI of $108 million was up $88 million reflecting significantly higher volume.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Sales of $1.6 billion increased $326 million, or 26 percent, principally driven by a 19 percent increase in volume and 8 percent higher selling prices.  The sales increase occurred in all regions, primarily in North America and Asia Pacific, and was driven by strong demand for titanium dioxide, fluoropolymers, and refrigerants, with continuing adoption of ISCEON
 as a preferred retrofit to R22 refrigerants.  PTOI was $274 million, an improvement of $132 million, primarily due to higher volume and selling prices
.
 
Performance Coatings 
Sales of $962 million increased $122 million, or 15 percent, with 11 percent higher volume and 4 percent higher selling prices.  Higher volume reflects improving demand in global automotive OEM markets and continued improvement in North American and European industrial markets, particularly heavy duty truck markets.  PTOI was $75 million, up $44 million from higher volume and price.
 
Performance Materials 
Sales of $1.6 billion increased $489 million, or 45 percent, with 35 percent higher volume and an 11 percent increase in selling prices. Strong demand in automotive, electronic and packaging markets led to growth in all regions.  PTOI was $261 million, an improvement of $224 million from higher volume and selling prices. Current quarter included a $27 million benefit from a gain on sale of a business and an insurance recovery.
 
Safety & Protection 
Sales of $845 million increased $181 million, or 27 percent, due to higher volume.  Growth primarily reflects strengthening in industrial markets.  PTOI was $121 million, an improvement of $73 million from higher volume.
 
Additional information is available
on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
The company increased its full-year earnings outlook to a range of $2.90 to $3.05 per share, excluding significant items, from its previous range of $2.50 to $2.70 per share.  The outlook increase reflects strong second-quarter results and expected continuation of year-over-year gains from higher sales, further strengthening of mid-cycle businesses such as Safety & Protection, and ongoing productivity improvement.  The outlook also assumes Pharmaceuticals full-year pre-tax income will be in a range from $460 to $480 million.  The company expects full-year free cash flow to be greater than $1.7 billion.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont is a science-based products and services company.  Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere.  Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
7/27/10
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a) See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
(a)   Second quarter and full year 2010 includes benefits for the adjustment of accrued interest of $59 ($38 after-tax) in Other income, net and the adjustment of income tax accruals of $49 associated with settlements of prior year tax contingencies.
 
(b)   Second quarter and full year 2009 included a $(340) restructuring charge recorded in Employee separation / asset related charges, net related to severance and related benefit costs, asset related charges, and other non-personnel costs.  Pre-tax amounts by segment were:  Electronics & Communications - $(43); Performance Chemicals - $(66); Performance Coatings - $(65);  Performance Materials - $(110); Safety & Protection - $(55); and Other - $(1).
 
(c)   Second quarter and full year 2009 included a $75 reduction in estimated costs recorded in Employee separation / asset related charges, net related to the 2008 restructuring program primarily due to the achievement of work force reductions through non-severance programs and redeployments.  Pre-tax amounts by segment were:  Agriculture & Nutrition - $(1); Performance Chemicals - $3; Performance Coatings - $42; Performance Materials - $28; Safety & Protection - $1; and Other - $2.
 
(d)   Second quarter and full year 2009 included a $50 benefit in Cost of goods sold and other operating charges resulting from a reduction of $26 from lower than estimated inventory and permanent investment write-offs and $24 in insurance recoveries relating to the damage from Hurricane Ike in 2008.  Total pre-tax amount relates to the Performance Materials segment.
 
(e)   Earnings per share for the year does not equal the sum of quarterly earnings per share due to changes in average share calculations.
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)  Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)  Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects.  See Schedule D for additional information.
(2)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Oulook
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pretax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain/(Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain/(Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain/(Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


