FILE:DD/DD-8K-20101026161842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1         Press Release dated October 26, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
October 26, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's third quarter 2010 earnings per share were $.40, compared to $.45 per share in the prior year, despite a $.13 decline in Pharmaceuticals income related to patent expirations.
 
                 
Sales of $7.0 billion grew 17 percent versus the prior year, principally reflecting 14 percent higher volume.  Sales in emerging markets increased 22 percent.
 
                 
All segments had robust volume increases, with Safety & Protection up 31 percent and Electronics & Communications up 24 percent.
 
                 
DuPont made a $500 million voluntary contribution to its principal U.S. pension plan in September.  The company expects 2010 free cash flow to be about $1.7 billion.
 
                 
DuPont increased its full-year 2010 earnings guidance to about $3.10 per share, excluding significant items.  The company's previous guidance was a range of $2.90 to $3.05 per share.
 
"I am proud of our business teams' performance this quarter, with segment pre-tax earnings up 33 percent excluding Pharmaceuticals income.   DuPont's market focus and science-based innovations helped drive outstanding sales growth, with all business segments and regions contributing.  Our deep customer engagement and disciplined execution are gaining traction toward achieving our long-term growth targets," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "This quarter's results were complemented by ongoing productivity improvements and rigorous cost management that contributed to profitable growth."
 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Third quarter 2010 consolidated net sales of $7.0 billion were 17 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 14 percent higher volume, 5 percent higher local selling prices, a 1 percent reduction from currency exchange rates and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes. The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the third quarter 2009.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Third quarter 2010 net income attributable to DuPont was $367 million versus $409 million in 2009.  Pharmaceuticals income was down substantially in the quarter related to patent expirations.  Fourteen percent higher sales volume was partly offset by selected growth investments in Agriculture & Nutrition and Safety & Protection and higher pension expense.  Fixed costs were 45 percent of sales, improving from 49 percent in third quarter 2009.  Fixed cost productivity is tracking ahead of pace for the full year.
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the third quarter.
 
 
* Fixed and variable costs exclude volume & currency impacts
** Includes $(.13) lower Pharmaceuticals income
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows third quarter 2010 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for third quarter 2010 was $763 million compared to third quarter 2009 PTOI of $757 million.  The $6 million PTOI increase reflects higher segment sales, more than offsetting an expected decline from Pharmaceuticals as shown in the table below.
 
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing third quarter 2010 with third quarter 2009, for sales and PTOI.  All references to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $1.3 billion were up $27 million, or 2 percent, principally reflecting 5 percent higher volume, partially offset by Crop Protection portfolio changes of 3 percent.  Increased sales primarily reflect technology penetration in the Latin American seed market and broad-based sales increase of Rynaxypyr
 insecticide.  Segment PTOI for the third quarter was a loss of $181 million, compared to a loss of $113 million in the third quarter 2009, reflecting growth investments and the impact of divested businesses. 
Year-to-date sales were $7.5 billion, up 9 percent versus the prior year and year-to-date PTOI was $1.5 billion, up 15 percent.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $703 million were up $161 million, or 30 percent, reflecting 24 percent higher volume and 6 percent higher selling prices, primarily pass-through of metals prices.  Higher volume was driven by growth in all regions, particularly in Asia Pacific and Europe, and strong demand across most market segments, particularly in photovoltaics.  PTOI of $126 million was up $49 million reflecting significantly higher volume.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $1.7 billion were up $344 million, or 26 percent, reflecting 15 percent higher volume and 12 percent higher selling prices.  The sales increase occurred in all regions, especially in North America and Asia Pacific, and was driven by strong demand across most market segments, particularly for titanium dioxide, fluoropolymers and industrial chemicals.  PTOI was $292 million, an improvement of $85 million, primarily due to higher volume and selling prices.
 
Performance Coatings 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $937 million were up $55 million, or 6 percent, on 5 percent higher volume.  Results reflect continued strengthening in North American and European heavy duty truck markets, and increased demand in global automotive markets, most significant in North America.  PTOI was $64 million, up 10 percent from higher volume.
 
Performance Materials 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $1.6 billion were up $275 million, or 21 percent, with 19 percent higher volume and a 4 percent increase in selling prices.  The higher volume reflects strong demand in automotive, electronic and packaging markets, with growth in all regions, particularly Asia Pacific.  PTOI was $281 million, an improvement of 22 percent from higher volume and selling prices, partially offset by the absence of a $24 million benefit from insurance recoveries in the prior year.
 
Safety & Protection 
Third quarter 2010 sales of $871 million were up $201 million, or 30 percent, primarily due to higher volume.  Growth reflects increased demand for aramid and nonwoven products due to strengthening in industrial markets, and strong demand across all regions.  PTOI was $134 million, an improvement of $76 million from higher volume and the absence of a $26 million asset impairment charge in the prior year.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
 
 
 
Outlook
The company expects full-year earnings to be about $3.10 per share, excluding significant items which will include a fourth quarter $.13 per share loss on the early extinguishment of debt.  The previous guidance range was $2.90 to $3.05 per share.  The increased outlook reflects strong third quarter results and
expectations for sustained demand in key global markets, continued pricing momentum and benefits from ongoing productivity. 
The outlook also assumes Pharmaceuticals full-year pre-tax income will be about $480 million.  The company expects full-year free cash flow to be about $1.7 billion.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (www.dupont.com) is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 90 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a)
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
(a)
             
Second quarter and year-to-date 2010 included benefits for the adjustment of accrued interest of $59 ($38 after-tax) in Other income, net and the adjustment of income tax accruals of $49 associated with settlements of prior year tax contingencies.
(b)
            
Second quarter and year-to-date 2009 included a $(340) restructuring charge recorded in Employee separation / asset related charges, net related to severance and related benefit costs, asset related charges, and other non-personnel costs.  Pre-tax amounts by segment were:  Electronics & Communications - $(43); Performance Chemicals - $(66); Performance Coatings - $(65);  Performance Materials - $(110); Safety & Protection - $(55); and Other - $(1).
(c)
             
Second quarter and year-to-date 2009 included a $75 reduction in estimated costs recorded in Employee separation / asset related charges, net related to the 2008 restructuring program primarily due to the achievement of work force reductions through non-severance programs and redeployments.  Pre-tax amounts by segment were:  Agriculture & Nutrition - $(1); Performance Chemicals - $3; Performance Coatings - $42; Performance Materials - $28; Safety & Protection - $1; and Other - $2.
(d)
            
Second quarter and year-to-date 2009 included a $50 benefit in Cost of goods sold and other operating charges resulting from a reduction of $26 from lower than estimated inventory and permanent investment write-offs and $24 in insurance recoveries relating to the damage from Hurricane Ike in 2008.  Total pre-tax amount related to the Performance Materials segment.
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)
   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)
            
Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects. See Schedule D for additional information.
(2)
            
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Oulook
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 


