FILE:DD/DD-8K-20100126153210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
 
On January 26, 2010, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
The Registrant is furnishing the earnings news release for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 as Exhibit 99.1 on Form 8-K, which has been revised to delete an extra comma which could lead to misinterpretation.  The "Outlook" section of the original earnings news release included the following statement: "[d]ue to strong pension fund performance, the company now expects pension expense to be about $.10 per share, lower than originally anticipated."  The foregoing statement should have read: "[d]ue to strong pension fund performance, the company now expects pension expense to be about $.10 per share lower than originally anticipated."  Exhibit 99.1 reflects this change.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
January 26, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's fourth-quarter 2009 earnings were $.48 per share, compared to a fourth-quarter 2008 loss of $.70 per share.  Excluding significant items, fourth-quarter 2009 earnings were $.44 per share versus a $.28 per share loss in the prior year (see Schedule B.)
 
                 
Sales of $6.4 billion were up 10 percent versus prior year, led by sales growth greater than 20 percent for titanium dioxide, electronic materials, performance polymers and seed products.
 
                 
Volume grew 10 percent, with increases in all regions.  Asia Pacific sales exceeded pre-recession levels with volume up 34 percent versus prior year, reflecting very strong demand in China, Japan, Korea and India.
 
                 
Raw material, energy and freight costs for the fourth-quarter were about 20 percent lower after adjusting for currency and volume.
 
                 
The company exceeded its full-year goal to deliver $1 billion of fixed cost reductions and productivity actions.
 
                 
Full-year 2009 earnings were $1.92 per share versus $2.20 in 2008.  Excluding significant items, 2009 earnings were $2.03 per share versus $2.78 in the prior year.
 
                 
Full-year free cash flow of $3.4 billion achieved the company's goal, reflecting capital productivity and favorable currency impact.
 
                 
DuPont increased its full-year 2010 earnings guidance to a range of $2.15 to $2.45 per share.  The previous guidance was $2.10 to $2.40 per share.
 
"Across the organization, DuPont delivered on its commitments in 2009," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "We intend to emerge stronger in 2010 by building on the work we accomplished last year, with a focus on sales growth through market-driven innovation and operating leverage.  We remain committed to compound annual growth targets of 10 percent for top-line and 20 percent for earnings through 2012."
 
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Fourth-quarter 2009 consolidated net sales of $6.4 billion were 10 percent higher than prior year, reflecting 10 percent higher volume, 3 percent lower local prices, a 4 percent positive impact from currency exchange rates and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus fourth-quarter 2008.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Net income attributable to DuPont for the fourth-quarter 2009 was $441 million versus a $629 million loss in the prior year.  Net income excluding significant items was $402 million versus a $249 million loss in the prior year.  The improvement reflects significantly higher sales volume, lower variable cost and currency benefit.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the fourth-quarter.
 
 
 
*Excluding volume and currency impacts.
**
Primarily higher equity affiliate income partly offset by a $.05 charge in Pharmaceuticals relating to the timing of rebates and other sales deductions.
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows fourth-quarter 2009 segment sales and related variances versus prior year.
 
 
* Segment sales include transfers
 
Reported pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for fourth-quarter 2009 was $798 million compared to a fourth-quarter 2008 pre-tax operating loss of $595 million.  Segment PTOI (loss) excluding significant items is shown below.
 
 
 
*
                
See Schedules B and C for a listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
**   Includes a $63 million charge in other income relating to the timing of rebates and other sales deductions.
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing the fourth-quarter 2009 with fourth-quarter 2008, for sales and PTOI, excluding significant items.  All references to selling price changes are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
 
Segment sales of $1.4 billion were up $143 million or 12 percent.  Volume increased 9 percent, with increases in all regions.  Selling prices were up 3 percent.  Segment volumes reflect 25 percent higher seed volume, with a strong start to the North America and European seasons, and successful summer plantings in Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa.  Seed sales were $465 million.  Crop protection product volumes increased 5 percent, reflecting increased insecticide demand in Latin America.  Food and nutrition products sales were up slightly, reflecting increased sales in North America.  Segment PTOI seasonal loss of $97 million, improved $67 million, principally due to higher seed volumes.
 
Electronics & Communications
 
Segment sales of $582 million were up 22 percent versus fourth-quarter 2008 and 2 percent above pre-recession fourth-quarter 2007.  Sales reflect 13 percent higher volumes and 9 percent higher prices (includes metals pass-through pricing) versus fourth-quarter 2008.  Seasonal demand, growth in photovoltaics and a small amount of inventory rebuilding throughout the industry contributed to a strong quarter.  PTOI of $61 million was up $32 million primarily due to significantly improved volume and mix.
 
Performance Chemicals
 
Segment sales of $1.3 billion increased $113 million, or 9 percent.  The sales increase was led by 17 percent higher volumes, partly offset by lower prices. Volume increases primarily driven by recovery in the titanium dioxide market in all regions.  Pricing decreases mostly reflected the pass-through of lower chemicals raw material costs.  PTOI was $208 million, an improvement of $194 million.  The increase primarily reflected lower raw material costs and higher volume.
 
Performance Coatings
 
Segment sales of $975 million increased $70 million, or 8 percent, principally reflecting higher selling prices.  Volumes were 2 percent lower, reflecting continued industrial market weakness in developed regions, partly offset by higher demand in automotive OEM markets.  PTOI was $70 million, up $151 million, reflecting lower raw material costs and aggressive fixed cost reductions.
 
Performance Materials
 
Segment sales of $1.4 billion increased $242 million, or 20 percent, principally reflecting 24 percent higher volumes led by improvement in automotive, industrial, consumer and electrical markets, with strong volume recovery in all regions, particularly Asia Pacific.  Segment PTOI for the quarter was $174 million, an improvement of $303 million, reflecting strong volume and variable margin expansion as lower selling prices were more than offset by the benefits of sharply lower raw material costs.
 
Safety & Protection
 
Segment sales of $759 million decreased $75 million, or 9 percent, essentially all volume driven.  Sales into automotive and consumer markets rebounded, while industrial and law enforcement markets continued to lag.  PTOI was $135 million, an improvement of $48 million.  The increase primarily reflected lower raw material costs and fixed cost reductions, partly offset by lower volume.
 
Additional segment information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
DuPont remains committed to its 20 percent compound annual earnings growth goal for the 2009-2012 time period and 2010 free cash flow target of greater than $1.5 billion as announced November 2009.  DuPont today increased its full-year 2010 earnings guidance to a range of $2.15 to $2.45 per share versus the previous guidance of $2.10 to $2.40 per share.  Due to strong pension fund performance, the company now expects pension expense to be about $.10 per share lower than originally anticipated.  In addition, the company is estimating a first-quarter $.05 per share exchange loss resulting from devaluation of the Venezuelan currency.
 
"In 2010, we will continue the momentum generated from last year's aggressive cost-cutting and cash-generating actions," Kullman said.  "We remain confident in our performance outlook for 2010, based on improving economic conditions coupled with well-positioned and streamlined businesses.  Each one of our business units has clear targets, our leaders understand their accountability and our teams are poised to deliver in 2010."
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont is a science-based products and services company.  Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere.  Operating in more than 70 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a) See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)
  
Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects.  See Schedule D for additional information.
(2)
  
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 
(1)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
  
Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)
  
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain/(Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain/(Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain/(Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


