FILE:DD/DD-8K-20110125163635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
     
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 25, 2011, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01
     
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1
       
Press Release dated January 25, 2011
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
January 25, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
4Q Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's fourth quarter 2010 earnings per share were $.40, compared to $.48 in the prior year despite a $.14 per share Pharmaceuticals decline.  Excluding significant items, earnings per share were $.50 versus $.44 in the prior year.  (See Schedule B for significant items.)
 
                 
Sales were $7.4 billion, up 15 percent versus prior year driven by 12 percent higher volume and 6 percent higher local prices, partly offset by 2 percent impact from currency and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.  Developing market sales increased 24 percent.
 
                 
Growth in sales was broad based across segments and regions, with particularly strong growth in Electronics & Communications and Performance Chemicals.
 
Full-Year Highlights:
 
                 
2010 earnings were $3.28 per share versus $1.92 in 2009. Excluding significant items, 2010 earnings were $3.28 per share versus $2.03 in 2009, up 62 percent.
 
                 
Sales increased 21 percent to $31.5 billion with sales volume approaching pre-recession levels driven by significant economic recovery in developed markets, share gains, and continued penetration of developing markets.
 
                 
Full-year free cash flow was $3.1 billion versus the company's target of greater than $1.7 billion, primarily driven by higher earnings and working capital productivity.
 
                 
DuPont exceeded its full-year productivity targets of $400 million each for fixed costs and working capital.
 
                 
DuPont increased its full-year 2011 earnings guidance to a range of $3.45 to $3.75 per share.  Previous guidance was $3.30 to $3.60 per share.  Additionally, the impact of the planned Danisco acquisition could reduce 2011 earnings by $.30-$.45 per share on a reported basis.
 
"The fourth quarter was a strong finish to an outstanding year.  We laid the groundwork for recovery in 2009 and executed with precision and effectiveness in 2010, meeting and often exceeding our business goals and financial commitments, some a full year early," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "We continue to differentiate DuPont through sustainable growth, disciplined execution and ongoing productivity coupled with science-powered innovation to address population megatrends around food, energy and protection."
 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Fourth quarter 2010 consolidated net sales of $7.4 billion were 15 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 12 percent higher volume, 6 percent higher local selling prices, a 2 percent reduction from currency exchange rates and a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes. The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the fourth quarter 2009.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Fourth quarter 2010 net income attributable to DuPont was $376 million versus $441 million in 2009.  Excluding significant items in both years, fourth quarter 2010 net income attributable to DuPont was $463 million versus $402 million in 2009.  Pharmaceuticals pre-tax income declined $160 million versus fourth quarter 2009 due to patent expirations.  Fixed costs were 47 percent of sales, improving from 50 percent in fourth quarter 2009.  Fixed cost productivity exceeded the $400 million improvement target set for the full year.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the fourth quarter, excluding significant items.
 
 
* Fixed and variable costs exclude volume & currency impacts
** Principally $(.14) lower Pharmaceuticals income, partly offset by $.03 higher equity affiliate income and $.03 exchange gains.
 
Business Segment Performance for 4
th
 Quarter
 
The table below shows fourth quarter 2010 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for fourth quarter 2010 was $641 million compared to fourth quarter 2009 PTOI of $798 million.  Excluding significant items, PTOI for fourth quarter 2010 was $657 million compared to $743 million in the fourth quarter 2009.  The decrease in PTOI principally reflects lower Pharmaceuticals income partly offset by higher segment sales.
 
 
 
*
    
4Q 2010 includes $32 million in charges related to legal settlements for discontinued businesses.
**
         
4Q 2009 includes a $63 million charge in other income relating to the timing of rebates and other sales deductions.
 
Business Segment Performance for Full Year
 
The tables below show full-year 2010 segment sales with related variances versus the prior year, and full-year PTOI excluding significant items.
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Consolidated net sales were $31.5 billion, up 21 percent versus prior year driven by 17 percent higher volume and 5 percent higher local prices, partly offset by a 1 percent reduction from portfolio changes.  Developing market sales increased 27 percent.
 
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing fourth quarter 2010 with fourth quarter 2009, for sales and PTOI excluding significant items.  All references to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $1.5 billion were up 13 percent, reflecting higher volume. Increased sales primarily reflect a strong start to the North American season, an increase in Latin America corn sales, an increase in Brazil soybean volume, and higher sales for crop protection products across all regions, led by continued expansion of Rynaxypyr insecticide.  PTOI for the fourth quarter was a seasonal loss of $117 million compared to a loss of $97 million in the fourth quarter 2009, reflecting continued growth investments.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $0.8 billion were up 33 percent, reflecting 24 percent higher volume and 9 percent higher selling prices, primarily pass-through of metals prices.  Higher volume was driven by growth in all regions, particularly in Asia Pacific, and strong demand across most market segments, especially photovoltaics.  PTOI of $98 million was up $37 million reflecting substantially higher volume.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $1.7 billion were up 26 percent, principally reflecting 13 percent higher volume and 14 percent higher selling prices.  Sales increased across all regions, especially in North America and Asia Pacific.  Higher selling prices primarily reflect favorable pricing for titanium dioxide. PTOI was $315 million, an improvement of $107 million reflecting higher selling prices and volume.
 
Performance Coatings 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $1.0 billion were up 3 percent, reflecting 4 percent higher volume, while selling prices declined 1 percent due to unfavorable currency impacts.  Results reflect continued strengthening in industrial coatings, particularly the North American and European heavy duty truck markets, and modest growth in global automotive markets, most significantly in North America.  PTOI was $71 million, essentially flat versus prior year.
 
Performance Materials 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $1.6 billion were up 11 percent, with 9 percent higher volume and a 5 percent increase in selling prices, partly offset by a 3 percent portfolio change.  The higher volume reflects double-digit growth in Asia Pacific and North America.  PTOI was $206 million, an improvement of $32 million, resulting from a $31 million combined benefit from an acquisition and an early termination of a supply agreement.  The impact of higher volume was offset by a weaker overall sales mix and increased raw material costs.
 
Safety & Protection 
Fourth quarter 2010 sales of $0.9 billion were up 13 percent from higher volume.  Growth reflects increased demand for aramid and nonwoven products due to the continued recovery in industrial markets and strong demand across all regions.  PTOI was $92 million versus $135 million in the prior year. The year-over-year reduction was due to higher raw material costs, higher spending for aramids growth initiatives and a net $11 million charge related to an asset impairment and a separate gain on an asset sale.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
The company revised its full-year 2011 earnings outlook to a range of $3.45 to $3.75 per share.  Previous guidance was $3.30 to $3.60 per share.  This revision reflects a lower base tax rate of 20 to 21 percent and reduced pension expense headwind, partly offset by anticipated dilution from increased shares outstanding.  The earnings outlook reflects the expectation for continued steady global economic growth with increasing industrial production, favorable North American agricultural conditions, and the company's further penetration of developing markets.  As previously announced, earnings from Pharmaceuticals are expected to decline about $280 million pre-tax versus 2010.
 
DuPont announced January 9 that it entered into a definitive agreement for the acquisition of Danisco, expected to be completed early in the second quarter.  The impact of this acquisition could reduce 2011 earnings by $.30-$.45 per share on a reported basis.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (www.dupont.com) is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 90 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere i n this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking sta tements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
01/25/11
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a)
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
 
 
(1)
   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


