FILE:DD/DD-8K-20111025144645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2011, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
October 25, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Highlights:
 
                 
Third quarter 2011 earnings were $.69 per share excluding significant items (see Schedule B) versus $.40 per share in the prior year.  Reported third quarter 2011 earnings were $.48 per share versus $.40 per share in the prior year.
 
                 
Sales increased 32 percent to $9.2 billion with 15 percent higher local prices, 4 percent currency benefit, 1 percent higher volume, and a 12 percent net increase from portfolio changes.  Sales in developing markets grew 38 percent.
 
                 
Growth in demand for the company's agricultural products and further expansion into food ingredient and enzyme markets offset destocking in photovoltaics and specialty polymers.
 
                 
Segment pre-tax operating income excluding significant items increased 50 percent to $1.1 billion, largely driven by improvements in the Performance Chemicals and Agriculture segments and the acquisition of Danisco.
 
                 
DuPont is on track to meet its full-year 2011 productivity targets for fixed costs and working capital.  Year-to-date fixed cost productivity totals more than $250 million.
 
                 
Given the strong performance in the third quarter, the company has raised its expectations for full-year 2011 earnings to a range of $3.97 to $4.05 per share excluding significant items.  This moves the range to the upper half of the company's previous guidance of $3.90 to $4.05 per share.
 
"The resilience and diversity of DuPont's business portfolio was evident in our strong third quarter results.  Despite turbulent global economic and market conditions, we delivered solid growth through innovative products and process technologies, disciplined execution and continued productivity gains," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "Our portfolio is further strengthened by the rapid integration of Danisco, continued capacity expansions and selective growth investments across many of our businesses."
 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Third quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $9.2 billion were 32 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 15 percent higher local prices, 4 percent favorable currency effect, 1 percent higher volume and a 12 percent net increase from portfolio changes.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the third quarter 2010.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Third quarter 2011 net income attributable to DuPont was $452 million versus $367 million in the third quarter 2010. Excluding significant items, net income attributable to DuPont increased $288 million, or 78 percent, to $655 million.  The increase principally reflects higher selling prices and currency benefit, partly offset by increased spending for selling, marketing and research and development, and increased costs for raw materials, energy, and freight.
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the third quarter.
 
*
                      
Excludes volume and currency impacts
**
               
After interest expense and additional depreciation/amortization expense related to the fair value step-up of acquired long-lived Danisco assets
***
        
Principally lower Pharmaceuticals income
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows third quarter 2011 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
SEGMENT SALES*
(Dollars in billions)
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI), excluding significant items, increased 50 percent to $1.1 billion largely driven by improvements in Performance Chemicals and Agriculture, and acquisition benefits in Nutrition & Health and Industrial Biosciences, as shown in the table below.
 
SEGMENT PTOI excluding Significant Items*
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
* See Schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing third quarter 2011 with third quarter 2010, for sales and PTOI (loss) excluding significant items. References to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture -
Sales of $1.4 billion were up $0.4 billion, or 41 percent, from 26 percent higher volume and 15 percent higher selling prices principally reflecting a strong, early start to the Latin American season.  For Pioneer seed, volume and price growth was delivered in both corn and soybeans.  Crop Protection sales increased across all regions and market segments, led by continued strong demand for Rynaxypyr insecticide.  PTOI of $(69) million improved from $(191) million due to higher sales, partially offset by growth investments and portfolio changes.
 
Electronics & Communications -
Sales of $841 million were up 20 percent, with 28 percent higher selling prices, primarily metals pass-through, and 8 percent lower volume.  Lower volume reflects destocking in photovoltaics, and softness in plasma displays and packaging graphics.  PTOI of $99 million decreased $27 million on lower volume.
 
Industrial Biosciences -
Sales of $293 million and PTOI of $34 million reflect the acquisition of Danisco's enzyme business.  PTOI includes approximately $4 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition.
 
Nutrition & Health -
Sales of $844 million were up $540 million principally due to the acquisition of Danisco's specialty food ingredients business.  PTOI of $55 million increased $45 million reflecting the acquisition and includes $22 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of the acquired intangible assets.
 
Performance Chemicals -
Sales of $2.1 billion were up 28 percent, with 29 percent higher selling prices and 1 percent lower volume.  Higher selling prices were driven by strong global demand for titanium dioxide and fluoropolymers and pass-through pricing of higher raw material costs for industrial chemicals.  Volume declined in refrigerants and industrial chemicals.  PTOI of $593 million increased $301 million due to higher selling prices.
 
Performance Coatings -
Sales of $1.1 billion were up 17 percent, with 13 percent higher selling prices and 4 percent higher volume.  Higher selling prices reflect favorable currency and pricing actions across all market segments to offset higher raw material costs.  Demand increased for OEM motor vehicle coatings and remained strong for industrial coatings, particularly in the North American heavy-duty truck market.  PTOI of $72 million increased $8 million on strong sales performance led by refinish.
 
Performance Materials -
Sales of $1.7 billion were up 11 percent, with 18 percent higher selling prices and 7 percent lower volume.  Higher selling prices offset higher raw material costs.  Lower volume reflects broad-based channel destocking along with softening in consumer and industrial markets, and production-related supply issues in ethylene-based polymers.  PTOI of $231 million decreased $50 million on lower volume.
 
Safety & Protection -
Sales of $1.0 billion were up 15 percent, with 8 percent higher selling prices and a 7 percent increase from the MECS acquisition.  Higher selling prices primarily reflect pricing actions to offset raw material cost increases.  PTOI of $118 million decreased $16 million on destocking in industrial markets and higher spending for growth initiatives including the Cooper River Kevlar expansion, which more than offset the impact of the acquisition and favorable currency.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
Outlook
 
Given the strong performance in the third quarter, the company has raised its expectations forfull-year 2011 earnings to a range of $3.97 to $4.05 per share excluding significant items.  This moves the range to the upper half of the company's previous guidance of $3.90 to $4.05 per share.  Expectations for the fourth quarter include slowing global growth, some destocking, and the recognition that a portion of Agriculture sales in Latin America was shifted to the third quarter by the early start of the planting season.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (NYSE: DD) has been bringing world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace in the form of innovative products, materials, and services since 1802.  The company believes that by collaborating with customers, governments, NGOs, and thought leaders we can help find solutions to such global challenges as providing enough healthy food for people everywhere, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, and protecting life and the environment.  For additional information about DuPont and its commitment to inclusive innovation, please visit http://www.dupont.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements which may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "expects," "will," "believes," "intends," "estimates" or other words of similar meaning.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's growth strategy, product development, regulatory approval, market position, anticipated benefits of acquisitions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.  Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control.  Some of the important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; significant litigation and environmental matters; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural disasters; inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights; and integration of acquired businesses and completion of divestitures of underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses.  The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
10/25/11
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a)
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)
            
Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
 
 
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
(1)
            
Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects.
See Schedule D for additional information.
(2)
            
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
       
Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)
       
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)
            
See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


