FILE:DD/DD-8K-20110728143625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2011, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
July 28, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Highlights:
 
                 
Second-quarter 2011 earnings were $1.37 per share, up 17 percent versus $1.17 per share in the prior year, excluding significant items from both periods (see Schedule B). Reported second-quarter 2011 earnings were $1.29 per share, including significant item charges of $.08 per share related to the acquisition. Reported second-quarter 2010 earnings were $1.26 per share.
 
                 
Sales increased 19 percent to $10.3 billion with 11 percent higher local prices, 2 percent higher sales volume, 3 percent currency benefit and a 3 percent net increase from portfolio changes.  Sales in developing markets grew 29 percent and represent 30 percent of total sales.
 
                 
Strong performances in Agriculture, Performance Chemicals and Safety & Protection, and the acquisition of Danisco contributed to a 20 percent increase in segment pre-tax operating income, excluding significant items.
 
                 
The company is on track versus its full-year 2011 productivity targets for fixed costs and working capital.  Year-to-date fixed cost productivity totals more than $180 million.
 
                 
The company increased its full-year 2011 earnings outlook, excluding significant items, to a range of $3.90 to $4.05 per share.  The increase reflects strong second-quarter results, the expectation for continued global economic growth and about $.05 per share full-year impact from Danisco on an underlying basis.   Prior guidance was a range of $3.65 to $3.85 per share, excluding the impact of Danisco.
 
"Our strong second-quarter sales growth across all segments and regions resulted from consistent global execution and customer-focused innovation," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "We are increasing our earnings outlook for 2011 based on strong performance yearto-date and confidence in our business plans for the second half of the year.  Longer term, we expect additional compelling growth opportunities across our businesses stemming from science-powered innovations and collaboration, including the integration of Danisco's world-class enzymes, fermentation and specialty food ingredients capabilities with DuPont's strong industrial biosciences and nutrition & health offerings."
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Second-quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $10.3 billion were 19 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 11 percent higher local prices, 2 percent higher volume, 3 percent favorable currency effect and a 3 percent net increase from portfolio changes.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the second quarter 2010.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Second-quarter 2011 net income attributable to DuPont increased 5 percent to $1,218 million versus $1,159 million in 2010. Excluding significant items, net income attributable to DuPont of $1,299 million increased $227 million, or 21 percent, from $1,072 million in the second quarter 2010.  The increase principally reflects higher selling prices, increased sales volume and currency benefit, partly offset by higher raw material, energy, and freight costs.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the second quarter.
 
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows second quarter 2011 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
* Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for second quarter 2011 was $1,943 million compared to second quarter 2010 PTOI of $1,655 million.   Excluding significant items, PTOI was $1,993 million, a 20 percent improvement from prior year, as shown in the table below.
 
 
* See schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
In view of the company's expanded business portfolio following the Danisco acquisition, two new reportable segments have been added: Industrial Biosciences and Nutrition & Health.  The Industrial Biosciences segment includes Danisco's enzyme business and DuPont
 Sorona
 and Bio-PDO
TM
 businesses, previously reported in Other.  The new Nutrition & Health segment contains Danisco's food ingredients business and DuPont's Nutrition & Health business previously reported as part of the Agriculture & Nutrition segment.  The former Agriculture & Nutrition segment, now renamed Agriculture, includes the seed and crop protection businesses.  The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing second quarter 2011 with second quarter 2010, for sales and PTOI excluding significant items. References to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture 
Sales of $3.0 billion were up $264 million, or 10 percent, reflecting 6 percent price gains and 4 percent volume gains.  Pioneer seed growth was led by strong market performance in North America spanning volume, price and portfolio gains.   Crop Protection sales increased across all product lines more than offsetting the impact of divested businesses.  PTOI for the quarter of $826 million grew 11 percent on higher sales, partly offset by the impact of portfolio changes.
 
First-half sales of $6.5 billion grew 15 percent with 9 percent higher volume, 5 percent price gains and 1 percent favorable impact of portfolio changes.   Pioneer seed business delivered volume and price gains in North America and Europe.  Crop Protection sales growth was underpinned by continued strong Rynaxypyr sales, solid herbicide and picoxystrobin fungicide growth, partly offset by the impact of divested businesses.  PTOI for the first half of $1.9 billion grew 16 percent on higher sales.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Sales of $891 million were up 36 percent, with 27 percent higher selling prices, primarily pass-through of metals prices, and 9 percent higher volume.  Volume growth was fueled by strong demand for photovoltaics and consumer electronics in Asia Pacific.  PTOI of $103 million decreased $5 million reflecting increased spending for photovoltaics growth initiatives and extreme volatility of metals pricing which reduced PTOI by about $20 million.
 
Industrial Biosciences 
Sales of $123 million and PTOI of $10 million primarily reflect the acquisition of Danisco's enzyme business.  PTOI included approximately $2 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition.
 
Nutrition &
Health
Sales of $486 million were up $189 million, or 64 percent, with a 58 percent increase from the acquisition of Danisco's food ingredients business, 4 percent higher selling prices and 2 percent volume growth.  PTOI of $38 million increased $22 million, primarily due to the acquisition.  PTOI included approximately $7 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Sales of $2.0 billion were up 27 percent, with 28 percent higher selling prices and 1 percent lower volume.  Sales increased substantially across all major regions.  Higher selling prices stemmed from strong global demand for titanium dioxide, refrigerants, fluoroproducts and industrial chemicals, and more than offset raw material increases.  Lower volume reflects weather-related supply disruptions in industrial chemicals.  PTOI was $503 million, increasing $229 million on strong sales performance.
 
Performance Coatings 
Sales of $1.1 billion were up 15 percent, with 14 percent higher selling prices and 1 percent higher volume.  Higher selling prices reflect pricing actions across all market segments to offset higher raw material costs along with a favorable currency impact. Strong demand continued in industrial coatings, particularly in North American heavy-duty truck markets.  PTOI of $73 million decreased slightly as higher sales were offset by higher raw material, energy and freight costs.
 
Performance Materials 
Sales of $1.7 billion were up 11 percent, with 14 percent higher selling prices, partially offset by 2 percent lower volume and a 1 percent reduction from a portfolio change.  Ongoing demand in electronic, packaging and automotive markets led to favorable pricing in all regions.  Lower
volume reflects supply constraints due to production outages, as well as supply chain disruptions as a result of the Japan earthquake.  PTOI of $254 million decreased slightly due to the absence of a $27 million benefit from a gain on the sale of a business and an insurance recovery in the prior year and lower volume, partially offset by higher selling prices.
Safety
&
Protection
Sales
of
$1.0
billion
were
up
21
percent,
with
an
8
percent
increase
from
a
portfolio
change
as
a
result
of
the
MECS
acquisition,
7
percent
higher
volume
and
6
percent
higher
selling
prices.
 
Higher
volume
reflects
continued
growth
from
increased
demand
for
aramid
and
nonwoven
products
in
industrial
and
public
sector
markets
across
all
major
regions.
 
Higher
selling
prices
primarily
reflect
pricing
actions
taken
to
offset
increases
in
raw
material
costs.
 
PTOI
of
$143
million
increased
significantly,
primarily
driven
by
the
portfolio
change
and
a
favorable
currency
impact,
partially
offset
by
higher
spending
for
the
Kevlar
 
expansion
at
Cooper
River.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
The company increased its full-year 2011 earnings outlook, excluding significant items, to a range of $3.90 to $4.05 per share.  The increase reflects strong second-quarter results, the expectation for continued global economic growth and about $.05 per share full-year operating earnings from Danisco on an underlying basis.   Prior guidance was a range of $3.65 to $3.85 per share, excluding the impact of Danisco.
 
The company's estimate for the impact of the Danisco acquisition on full-year reported earnings is now a reduction of $.18 to $.29 per share, versus the previous estimate of a $.30 to $.45 per share reduction. The current view is based on anticipated full-year Danisco operating earnings of about $.05 per share and significant item charges related to the acquisition estimated to be $.23 to $.34 per share. In addition to these Danisco charges, the company expects a $.03 per share significant item charge in the third quarter associated with a licensing agreement.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (www.dupont.com) is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 90 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements which may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "expects," "will," "believes," "intends," "estimates" or other words of similar meaning.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's growth strategy, product development, regulatory approval, market position, anticipated benefits of acquisitions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.  Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control.  Some of the important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; significant litigation and environmental matters; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural disasters; inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights; and integration of acquired businesses and completion of divestitures of underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses.  The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
 
7/28/11
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a) See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 
SCHEDULE E
 
The Danisco acquisition was valued at $6,417, plus net debt assumed of $617.  The following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.  These amounts represent the preliminary allocation of the purchase price.  Final determination of the fair value may result in further adjustments to the values presented below.
 
 


