FILE:DD/DD-8K-20110421165115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2011, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1      Press Release dated April 21, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
April 21, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Highlights:
 
                 
DuPont's first quarter 2011 earnings were $1.52 per share, compared to $1.24 per share in the prior year, despite a Pharmaceuticals earnings decline of $.14 per share.
 
                 
Sales increased 18 percent to $10.0 billion with 9 percent higher sales volume, 8 percent higher local price and a 1 percent increase from portfolio changes.  Sales in developing markets grew 30 percent.
 
                 
Customer-driven innovation contributed to the company achieving five consecutive quarters of pricing gains.
 
                 
All segments recorded double-digit sales growth, driving a 31 percent increase in segment pre-tax operating income, excluding Pharmaceuticals. 
Volumes were especially strong in Safety & Protection, Agriculture & Nutrition, and Electronics & Communications.
 
                 
DuPont increased its full-year 2011 earnings guidance to a range of $3.65 to $3.85 per share from the previous range of $3.45 to $3.75 per share, excluding the impact of Danisco. As previously announced, the planned Danisco acquisition could reduce 2011 earnings by $.30-$.45 per share on a reported basis.
 
"Our science-powered innovation, keen focus on customers and disciplined execution contributed to delivering outstanding results, including double-digit sales increases in every segment and in every region," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman. "Innovation that addresses population-driven megatrends around food, energy and protection coupled with ongoing productivity and execution will continue to differentiate DuPont. Our top-line growth and productivity results support our confidence in raising the full-year earnings outlook."
 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
 
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
First quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $10.0 billion were 18 percent higher than the prior year, reflecting 9 percent higher volume, 8 percent higher local prices and a 1 percent net increase from portfolio changes.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the first quarter 2010.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
First quarter 2011 net income attributable to DuPont increased 27 percent to $1,431 million versus $1,129 million in 2010. The increase reflects higher sales volume and selling prices, partly offset by a $171 million decline in Pharmaceuticals pre-tax income due to patent expirations.  Fixed costs improved to 35 percent of sales from 37 percent in the first quarter 2010, with productivity actions tracking on plan for the full year.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the first quarter.
 
*
                      
Excludes volume and currency impacts
**
               
Principally $(.14) lower Pharmaceuticals income, partly offset by lower net exchange losses, lower interest expense, and portfolio changes.  
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows first quarter 2011 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*    Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for first quarter 2011 was $2,125 million compared to first quarter 2010 PTOI of $1,803 million.   The increase in PTOI principally reflects earnings improvements in all segments, partly offset by lower Pharmaceuticals income as shown below.
 
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing first quarter 2011 with first quarter 2010, for sales and PTOI. References to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture & Nutrition
 Sales of $3.8 billion were up $586 million, or 18 percent, with 13 percent volume growth, 4 percent higher selling prices and a 1 percent increase from a portfolio change.  Seed sales growth primarily reflects strong North American performance in both Pioneer brand and PROaccess products and a strong, early start to the European season.  Crop protection product sales growth reflects a strong and early start to the northern hemisphere season.  PTOI of $1.1 billion improved 21 percent on higher volume.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Sales of $0.8 billion were up 29 percent, with 20 percent higher selling prices, primarily pass-through of metals prices and 9 percent higher volume.  Higher volume was driven by strong demand for photovoltaics and consumer electronics in Asia Pacific.  PTOI of $111 million increased modestly, reflecting higher volume.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Sales of $1.8 billion were up 27 percent, with 21 percent higher selling prices and 6 percent higher volume.  Sales increased across all regions, especially in the United States and Asia Pacific.  Higher selling prices stemmed from strong global demand for titanium dioxide, refrigerants and fluoroproducts.  PTOI was $394 million, increasing $204 million due to higher selling prices and volume.
 
Performance Coatings 
Sales of $1.0 billion were up 10 percent, reflecting 6 percent higher selling prices and 4 percent higher volume.  Global automotive markets improved primarily due to a significant increase in North American auto builds.  Strong demand continued in industrial coatings, particularly in the North American heavy-duty truck market.  PTOI was $65 million, an improvement of $20 million versus prior year on strong sales and operating leverage.
 
Performance Materials 
Sales of $1.7 billion were up 11 percent, with 7 percent higher volume, 6 percent higher selling prices and a 2 percent reduction from a portfolio change.  Continued improvement in automotive, electronic, and packaging markets resulted in higher volume.  PTOI was $288 million, up $58 million on higher selling prices and volume.
 
Safety & Protection 
Sales of $1.0 billion were up 22 percent, with 14 percent higher volume and a 7 percent increase from a portfolio change.  Growth came from increased demand for aramid and nonwoven products in industrial markets across all regions.  PTOI was $145 million, up $43 million on higher volume and a portfolio change, partially offset by higher spending for growth initiatives.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
 
The company increased its full-year 2011 earnings outlook to a range of $3.65 to $3.85 per share from its previous range of $3.45 to $3.75.    This revision reflects strong first quarter earnings and execution of the company's growth plans with the expectation of continued global economic growth. As previously announced, the planned Danisco acquisition could reduce 2011 earnings by $.30-$.45 per share on a reported basis.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements, such as free cash flow, are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (www.dupont.com) is a science-based products and services company. Founded in 1802, DuPont puts science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Operating in more than 90 countries, DuPont offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food; building and construction; communications; and transportation.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements.  Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "projects," "indicates," and similar expressions.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by DuPont, particularly its latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as others, could cause results to differ materially from those stated.  These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw materials, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; seasonality of sales of agricultural products; and severe weather events that cause business interruptions, including plant and power outages, or disruptions in supplier and customer operations. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
04/21/11
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
There were no significant items for the three months ended March 31,2011and 2010.
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
 
(1)
    Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
(2)
            
Gains and losses resulting from the company's hedging program are largely offset by associated tax effects.  See Schedule D for additional information.
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
 
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes.  The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net on the Consolidated Income Statements and are largely offset by the associated tax impact.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)." 
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above.
 


