FILE:DD/DD-8K-20121023164312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 23, 2012, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1          Press Release dated October 23, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
                 
Third-quarter 2012 earnings from continuing operations, excluding significant items, were $.32 per share versus $.60 per share in the prior year (see Schedule B.)  Current quarter reported earnings (losses) from continuing operations were $(.05) per share versus $.39 per share in the prior year.
 
                 
Total company third-quarter 2012 earnings, excluding significant items, were $.44 per share versus $.69 per share in the prior year.  Total company reported earnings were $.01 per share versus $.48 per share in the prior year (see Schedule D.)
 
                 
The company's Performance Coatings business, now pending divestiture, has been reclassified and reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
                 
Third-quarter sales from continuing operations were $7.4 billion or 9 percent below last year, primarily reflecting v
olume declines in Electronics & Communications and Performance
  Company sales reflect 5 percent lower volume, 4 percent negative currency impact and a 1 percent net reduction from portfolio changes, which were partly offset by 1 percent higher local prices.
Chemicals, particularly in Asia Pacific.
 
                 
Agriculture sales increased 4 percent on higher volume and prices, inclusive of a 10 percent currency headwind.  Performance Materials and Nutrition & Health delivered strong earnings growth in the quarter.
 
                 
The company has commenced a restructuring plan to increase productivity, enhance competitiveness and accelerate growth.  The plan will deliver pre-tax cost savings of about $450 million ($300 million in 2013) by eliminating corporate costs supporting Performance Coatings and taking additional cost-cutting actions to improve competitiveness.  The restructuring plan includes eliminating about 1,500 positions globally in the next 12-18 months.  In addition, the company remains on track to achieve its full-year 2012 productivity targets for both fixed costs and working capital.
 
                 
DuPont expects its full-year 2012 earnings from continuing operations, excluding significant items, to be in a range of $3.25 to $3.30 per share.  Prior-year earnings were $3.55 per share on a comparable basis.
 
"Today, we are taking additional actions to improve competitiveness and accelerate market-driven innovation and growth by fine-tuning the organization, eliminating costs and expanding beyond our everyday focus on productivity," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman. "We continue to execute well in many parts of the company, and certain segments are outperforming despite market volatility.  Weaker than expected demand in titanium dioxide and photovoltaic markets contributed to the decline from last year's record third-quarter earnings.  We are addressing these challenges now to position ourselves for improved performance."
Results from Continuing Operations
 
Third-quarter 2012 consolidated net sales of $7.4 billion were 9 percent lower than the prior year reflecting 5 percent lower volume, 4 percent negative currency impact and a 1 percent net reduction from portfolio changes, partly offset by 1 percent higher local prices.  The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the third quarter 2011.
 
 
* Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Third-quarter 2012 income from continuing operations was a loss of $40 million versus income of $376 million in 2011. Excluding significant items, income from continuing operations was $302 million down $277 million, or 48 percent, from $579 million in the third quarter 2011.
Earnings Per Share
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for continuing operations, excluding significant items, for the third quarter.
 
 
 
Business Segment Performance
The table below shows third quarter 2012 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) from continuing operations for third quarter 2012 was $356 million compared to third quarter 2011 PTOI of $778 million.  Excluding significant items, PTOI was $816 million, down 24 percent from $1,071 million in the prior year, as shown in the table below.
 
 
* See schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing third quarter 2012 with third quarter 2011, for sales and PTOI (loss), excluding significant items.  References to price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
Agriculture 
Sales of $1.4 billion were up 4 percent on 7 percent higher volume partially offset by 3 percent lower prices inclusive of a 10 percent currency headwind.  For Pioneer seed, volume growth reflects a strong start to the Southern Hemisphere planting season.  Higher local prices for both corn and soybeans were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable currency.  Crop Protection sales growth was underpinned by strong demand for insect control products and fungicides; while higher local prices across all market segments were more than offset by unfavorable currency.  PTOI seasonal loss was ($85) million versus ($69) million in the prior year as strong sales were more than offset by unfavorable currency, higher input costs in seeds and higher investments in commercial and R&D activities to support growth.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Sales of $607 million were down 28 percent on 20 percent lower volume and 8 percent lower prices, primarily pass-through of lower metals prices.  Volume declined in photovoltaic materials, partially offset by continued strong demand for materials in smart phones and tablets.  PTOI of $40 million declined $59 million from lower volume.
 
Industrial Biosciences 
Sales of $292 million were flat compared to prior year as higher volume was offset by lower prices, primarily related to unfavorable currency.  Volume growth reflects strong biomaterial sales into carpeting, as well as continued growth in animal nutrition and food enzymes.  PTOI of $42 million was up $8 million on higher volume and the realization of cost synergies related to the integration of the Danisco enzyme business.
 
Nutrition &
Health
Sales of $876 million were up 4 percent on higher volume, reflecting strong demand for specialty food ingredients and Solae soy specialties.  Higher local prices were offset by unfavorable currency.  PTOI of $87 million was up $32 million on higher local selling prices, higher volume and the realization of cost synergies related to the integration of the Danisco specialty food ingredients business.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Sales of $1.7 billion were down 19 percent, with 18 percent lower volume and 1 percent lower prices against a quarter with record titanium dioxide volume.  Sales declined on lower demand for titanium dioxide and fluoropolymers.  Volumes were pressured by softness in Europe and Asia Pacific primarily due to lower infrastructure spend and weak construction markets.  PTOI of $372 million decreased $221 million on lower volume.
 
Performance Materials 
Sales of $1.6 billion were down 8 percent, with 7 percent lower prices and a 3 percent reduction from a portfolio change, partially offset by 2 percent higher volume.  Lower prices reflect unfavorable currency and mix.  Stable packaging markets and continued strong demand in automotive were partially offset by softness in the industrial and electronics markets.  PTOI of $306 million increased $75 million due to lower feedstock costs and higher volume, partially offset by unfavorable currency.
 
Safety & Protection 
Sales of $934 million were down 7 percent, with 4 percent lower prices, primarily due to unfavorable currency, and 3 percent lower volume.  Volume declined due to stalled infrastructure projects in China, weaker industrial conditions in Europe and lower US public sector demand.  Trends in US housing are encouraging.  PTOI of $103 million decreased $15 million on weaker mix and unfavorable currency.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.investors.dupont.com.
Outlook
 
DuPont expects its full-year 2012 earnings from continuing operations, excluding significant items, to be in a range of $3.25 to $3.30 per share.  Prior-year earnings were $3.55 per share on a comparable basis.
 
Update on Performance Coatings Sale
 
On August 30, 2012, DuPont announced that it signed a definitive agreement to sell its Performance Coatings business for $4.9 billion in cash and the assumption of $250 million of unfunded pension liabilities.  DuPont estimates that the after-tax cash proceeds will be about $4 billion.  Beginning with the third quarter results, the Performance Coatings segment has been classified as discontinued operations and is excluded from the company's continuing operations results, on a retroactive basis.  Current quarter earnings from discontinued operations were $.06 per share, which included a $.06 charge related to additional deferred tax liabilities.  Prior year earnings were $.09 per share.  Excluding the $.06 charge related to additional deferred tax liabilities, the company expects earnings from discontinued operations to be about $.41 per share for full year 2012.  The sale is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (NYSE: DD) has been bringing world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace in the form of innovative products, materials, and services since 1802.  The company believes that by collaborating with customers, governments, NGOs, and thought leaders we can help find solutions to such global challenges as providing enough healthy food for people everywhere, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, and protecting life and the environment.  For additional information about DuPont and its commitment to inclusive innovation, please visit http://www.dupont.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements which may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "expects," "will," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates" or other words of similar meaning.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's growth strategy, product development, regulatory approval, market position, anticipated benefits of acquisitions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.  Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control.  Some of the important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; significant litigation and environmental matters; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural disasters; inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights; and integration of acquired businesses and completion of divestitures of underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses.  The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
10/23/12
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a) See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
SCHEDULE B
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
SCHEDULE B (continued)
 
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)
   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)  See Schedule D for additional information on exchange gains and losses.
(2)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
SCHEDULE D
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow - Total Company
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/Losses
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net and the related tax impact is recorded in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes on the Consolidated Income Statements.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
(1)  The above Net after-tax exchange gains (losses) excludes gains (losses) attributable to discontinued operations of $9 and $(11) for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $(11) and $(12) for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


