FILE:DD/DD-8K-20120724155504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
   
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 24, 2012, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1         Press Release dated July 24, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 24, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
Highlights:
 
                 
Second-quarter 2012 earnings were $1.48 per share versus $1.37 per share in the prior year, excluding significant items from both periods.  Reported second-quarter earnings were $1.25 per share versus $1.29 per share in the prior year.
 
                 
Sales increased 7 percent to $11.0 billion reflecting 6 percent higher local prices and a 5 percent increase from portfolio changes, partially offset by a 3 percent reduction from currency and 1 percent lower sales volume.  Sales in developing markets grew 11 percent.
 
                 
Segment pre-tax operating income, excluding pharmaceuticals and significant items, increased 13 percent, principally attributable to higher earnings from Agriculture and Performance Materials and a prior-year acquisition benefiting Nutrition & Health and Industrial Biosciences.
 
                 
For the first half of 2012, Agriculture delivered 15 percent sales growth and 16 percent higher pre-tax operating income excluding significant items, reflecting strong northern-hemisphere business performance across both seed and crop protection product lines.
 
                 
The company is on track versus its full-year 2012 productivity targets for fixed costs and working capital.  Year-to-date fixed cost productivity totals $190 million.
 
                 
DuPont expects full-year earnings to be toward the lower end of its existing outlook range of $4.20 to $4.40 per share, excluding significant items, due to uncertainties associated with macros and currency as well as a higher tax rate related to earnings mix.  Prior year earnings were $3.93 per share on a comparable basis.
 
"Our agriculture, food and bioscience businesses are performing exceptionally well globally, and our advanced materials businesses are achieving solid results despite slower growth in some key markets and continued weakness in Europe," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "Our global teams continue to execute well in a dynamic environment, while investing for growth driven by science-powered innovation and collaboration."
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Second-quarter 2012 consolidated net sales of $11.0 billion were 7 percent higher than the prior year reflecting 6 percent higher local prices and a 5 percent net increase from portfolio changes, partly offset by a 3 percent negative currency impact and 1 percent lower volume. The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the second quarter 2011.
 
 
*
 Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Second-quarter 2012 net income attributable to DuPont was $1,179 million versus $1,218 million in 2011. Excluding significant items, net income attributable to DuPont of $1,394 million increased $95 million, or 7 percent, from $1,299 million in the second quarter 2011.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the second quarter.
 
*
          Excluding volume and currency impacts
 
Business Segment Performance
 
The table below shows second quarter 2012 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*
  Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI) for second quarter 2012 was $1,898 million compared to second quarter 2011 PTOI of $1,943 million.   Excluding significant items, PTOI was $2,178 million, up 9 percent from $1,993 million in the prior year, as shown in the table below.
 
 
*
 See schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
 
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing second quarter 2012 with second quarter 2011, for sales and PTOI, excluding significant items.  References to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture 
Sales of $3.4 billion were up $0.4 billion, or 13 percent, with 7 percent price and 6 percent volume gains.  Pioneer seed maintained its momentum delivering 12 percent sales growth on agriculture macros and strong business performance in North America corn and soybeans.  Crop Protection sales growth of 15 percent was underpinned by strong demand across all product lines.   PTOI of $926 million improved 12 percent on strong sales performance partially offset by input cost increases in seeds, unfavorable currency impact and higher investments in Right Product Right Acre commercial and R&D activities.
 
First half sales of $7.5 billion were up $1.0 billion, or 15 percent, with 8 percent volume and 7 percent price gains.  Pioneer seed sales growth of 16 percent reflects strong northern hemisphere performance with global price and volume gains on new product penetration. Crop Protection sales growth of 11 percent reflects continued strong demand in all product lines with standout performance in insect control products.  PTOI for the first half of $2.2 billion improved 16 percent on higher volume and price partially offset by input cost increases in seeds, unfavorable currency impact and higher spending for growth investments.
 
Electronics & Communications 
Sales of $795 million were down 11 percent on 6 percent lower volume and 5 percent lower selling prices, primarily pass-through of lower metals prices.  Sales reflect continued soft demand for photovoltaic materials, though up sequentially from first quarter.  Volume decline in photovoltaics was partially offset by increased demand for smart phones and tablets.  PTOI of $75 million declined $28 million from lower volume and plant utilization.  Additionally, PTOI in the prior year included a $20 million reduction due to extreme volatility in metals prices.
 
Industrial Biosciences 
Sales of $300 million were up $177 million, primarily due to two months acquisition benefit from the Danisco enzyme business. Biomaterial sales into apparel and carpeting accounted for a 10 percent volume increase.  PTOI of $44 million was up $34 million benefiting from the acquisition and realization of cost synergies.  PTOI includes $5 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of acquired intangible assets.
 
Nutrition &
Health
Sales of $885 million were up $399 million, or 82 percent, primarily reflecting two months acquisition benefit from the Danisco specialty food ingredients business.  Higher volume reflects continued strong demand in Solae specialty soy products.  PTOI of $112 million was up $74 million benefiting from the acquisition, realization of cost synergies and favorable product mix in Solae.  PTOI includes $20 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of acquired intangible assets.
 
Performance Chemicals 
Sales of $2.0 billion were down 1 percent, with 10 percent lower volume partially offset by 9 percent higher selling prices.  Higher selling prices more than offset higher ore costs.  Lower volume reflects continued softness in titanium dioxide, particularly in Asia Pacific and Europe, and weakening demand in fluoropolymers.  PTOI of $538 million increased $35 million on higher selling prices and continued productivity actions.
 
Performance Coatings 
Sales of $1.1 billion were down 1 percent, with 2 percent lower volume partially offset by 1 percent higher selling prices.  OEM volume growth in North America and Asia Pacific was more than offset by lower refinish and powder coatings volume, particularly in European markets.  Higher local selling prices across all regions and market segments were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable currency.  PTOI of $92 million increased $19 million on higher selling prices, mix enrichment and continued productivity actions, partially offset by unfavorable currency.
 
Performance Materials 
Sales of $1.7 billion were down 3 percent, primarily reflecting a 3 percent reduction from a portfolio change and 1 percent lower selling prices, partially offset by 1 percent higher volume.  The lower selling prices were primarily affected by unfavorable currency. 
Volume growth in packaging markets and continued strong demand in the automotive market, particularly in North America, were partially offset by softness in the industrial and electronic markets.  PTOI of $317 million increased $63 million due to lower feedstock costs and higher volume, partially offset by unfavorable currency.
 
Safety & Protection 
Sales of $986 million were down 4 percent, with 5 percent lower volume partially offset by 1 percent higher selling prices.  Volume declined due to lower public sector demand and continued softness in industrial markets.  Higher local selling prices from value-based pricing were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable currency.  PTOI of $127 million decreased $16 million on weaker mix, unfavorable currency and higher spending for growth initiatives, partially offset by value-based pricing actions.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.investors.dupont.com.
 
Outlook
DuPont expects full-year earnings to be toward the lower end of its existing outlook range of $4.20 to $4.40 per share, excluding significant items, due to uncertainties associated with macros and currency as well as a higher tax rate related to earnings mix.  Prior year earnings were $3.93 per share on a comparable basis.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (NYSE: DD) has been bringing world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace in the form of innovative products, materials, and services since 1802.  The company believes that by collaborating with customers, governments, NGOs, and thought leaders we can help find solutions to such global challenges as providing enough healthy food for people everywhere, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, and protecting life and the environment.  For additional information about DuPont and its commitment to inclusive innovation, please visit http://www.dupont.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements which may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "expects," "will," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates" or other words of similar meaning.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's growth strategy, product development, regulatory approval, market position, anticipated benefits of acquisitions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.  Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control.  Some of the important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; significant litigation and environmental matters; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural disasters; inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights; and integration of acquired businesses and completion of divestitures of underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses.  The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
7/24/12
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a)
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
(a)
             
First quarter and second quarter 2012 included charges of $50 and $265, respectively, recorded in Cost of goods sold and other operating charges associated with the company's process to fairly resolve claims related to the use of Imprelis herbicide, bringing the total charges to $490 at June 30, 2012.  The company will continue to evaluate reported claim damage as additional information becomes available. It is reasonably possible that additional charges could result from this evaluation. While there is a high degree of uncertainty, total charges could range as high as $575. The company has submitted, and will continue to submit, requests for payment to its insurance carriers for costs associated with this matter in excess of $100.  This matter relates to the Agriculture segment.
 
(b)
            
Second quarter 2012 included a charge of $137 recorded in Cost of goods sold and other operating charges primarily related to the company's settlement of litigation with Invista.  This matter relates to Other.
 
(c)
             
Second quarter 2012 included a pre-tax gain of $122 recorded in Other income, net associated with the sale of an equity method investment in the Electronics & Communications segment.
 
(d)
            
Second quarter 2011 included charges related to the Danisco acquisition of $(103) recorded in Cost of goods sold and other operating charges.  These charges included $(60) of transaction costs and a $(43) charge related to the fair value step-up of inventories that were acquired from Danisco and sold in the second quarter 2011. Pre-tax charges by segment were: Industrial Biosciences - $(17), Nutrition & Health - $(33), and Corporate expenses - $(53).
 
(e)
             
Earnings per share for the year may not equal the sum of quarterly earnings per share due to changes in average share calculations.
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)
            
Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule D for additional information on exchange gains and losses.
(2) 
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
 
Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (EPS) Outlook
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/(Losses)
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net and the related tax impact is recorded in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes on the Consolidated Income Statements.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)."
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.


