FILE:DD/DD-8K-20120124171150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
                        
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 24, 2012, the Registrant announced its consolidated financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011.  A copy of the Registrant's earnings news release is furnished on Form 8-K.  The information contained in Item 2.02 of this report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01
                        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits:
 
99.1         Press Release dated January 24, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Full Year:
 
                 
2011 earnings, before significant items, were up 20 percent to a record $3.93 per share versus $3.28 per share in 2010.  Reported earnings per share were $3.68 versus $3.28 in 2010.
 
                 
Sales of $38.0 billion were up 20 percent, with a 27 percent increase in developing markets.
 
                 
Excluding significant items and Pharmaceuticals, segment pre-tax operating income increased 31 percent with leading contributions from Performance Chemicals and Agriculture
.
 
                 
The
company generated $3.3 billion free cash flow in 2011 versus $3.1 billion in 2010, driven by increased segment operating income and productivity initiatives.
 
                 
Fixed cost productivity of $400 million and working capital productivity of $500 million significantly exceeded the $300 million targets set for each.
 
                 
For 2012, DuPont reaffirmed its earnings outlook range of $4.20 to $4.40 per share, which represents 7 to 12 percent growth versus 2011, excluding significant items.
 
Fourth Quarter:
 
                 
Fourth quarter 2011 earnings were $.35 per share, excluding significant items, reflecting a $.23 per share year-over-year headwind from a higher tax rate.  Prior year earnings were $.50 per share, excluding significant items.  Reported fourth quarter 2011 earnings were $.40 per share, unchanged from the prior year.
 
                 
Sales grew 14 percent to $8.4 billion, principally from 14 percent higher local prices. A 10 percent net increase from portfolio changes was offset by a 10 percent volume decline.
 
                 
Agriculture delivered an 8 percent sales gain in the fourth quarter and 23 percent sales growth for the second half. This reflects strong performance during the Latin American selling season.
 
                 
Excluding significant items and Pharmaceuticals, segment pre-tax operating income increased over $100 million, or 18 percent versus the prior year, principally due to Performance Chemicals and acquisitions in Industrial Biosciences and Nutrition & Health.
 
"We delivered exceptional full-year results in 2011 despite significant market headwinds late in the year," said DuPont Chair and CEO Ellen Kullman.  "Our market-driven science continues to meet customer needs in food, energy and protection.  Acquisitions in Nutrition & Health and Industrial Biosciences, coupled with robust and disciplined productivity efforts across our businesses, contributed to our successful performance. We remain well-positioned to serve customers and innovate as key markets rebound and global population growth drives new opportunities."
 
Global Consolidated Sales and Net Income
 
Fourth quarter 2011 consolidated net sales of $8.4 billion were 14 percent higher than the prior year.  Volume declines in all regions were driven by destocking in photovoltaics, polymer and industrial supply chains, as well as weaker demand for products supplying consumer electronics and construction. Agriculture volume increased and primarily reflects growth and penetration in the Latin American summer season. The table below shows regional sales and variances versus the fourth quarter 2010.
 
 
*
Europe, Middle East & Africa
 
Fourth quarter 2011 net income attributable to DuPont was $373 million versus $376 million in the fourth quarter 2010. Excluding significant items, net income attributable to DuPont was $325 million versus $463 million in the prior year.  The decrease principally reflects a higher tax rate.  Higher selling prices more than offset increased spending for selling, marketing and research and development, higher costs for raw materials, energy and freight, and lower volume.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
The table below shows year-over-year earnings per share (EPS) variances for the fourth quarter.
 
 
 
*
                
Excludes volume and currency impacts
**
         
Includes interest expense and additional depreciation/amortization expense related to the fair value step-up of acquired long-lived Danisco assets
 
Business Segment Performance - 4
th
 Quarter
 
The table below shows fourth quarter 2011 segment sales and related variances versus the prior year.
 
 
*
             
Segment sales include transfers
 
Segment pre-tax operating income (PTOI), excluding significant items, increased 16 percent to $763 million largely driven by improvements in Performance Chemicals and Agriculture, and acquisitions in Nutrition & Health and Industrial Biosciences, as shown in the table below.
 
*
See Schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
**
4Q 2010 includes $32 million in charges related to legal settlements for discontinued businesses.
Business Segment Performance - Full Year
 
The tables below show full-year 2011 segment sales with related variances versus the prior year, and full-year PTOI excluding significant items.
 
 
*
                
Segment sales include transfers
 
*
See Schedules B and C for listing of significant items and their impact by segment.
The following is a summary of business results for each of the company's reportable segments, comparing fourth quarter 2011 with fourth quarter 2010, for sales and PTOI (loss) excluding significant items. References to selling price are on a U.S. dollar basis, including the impact of currency.
 
Agriculture -
Sales of $1.3 billion were up 8 percent, with 5 percent higher selling prices and 3 percent higher volume.  PTOI seasonal loss of $(116) million improved $19 million due to higher sales.  Full-year sales of $9.2 billion grew 17 percent with 10 percent volume gains, 6 percent higher prices and 1 percent impact from portfolio changes.  Full-year PTOI grew 30 percent with 19 percent PTOI margins. In seeds, sales reflected success in each region with volume and price gains. In crop protection, sales growth was delivered in each product line and region.
 
Electronics & Communications -
Sales of $630 million were down 18 percent reflecting 33 percent lower volume partially offset by 15 percent higher selling prices related to pass-through of metal prices.  Lower volume reflects destocking in photovoltaics and softness in consumer electronics.  PTOI of $42 million decreased on lower volume, partially offset by OLED technology licensing income of $20 million.
 
Industrial Biosciences -
Sales of $289 million and PTOI of $34 million reflect the acquisition of Danisco's enzyme business.  PTOI includes $6 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of acquired intangible assets.
 
Nutrition & Health -
Sales of $806 million were up $468 million from the acquisition of Danisco's specialty food ingredients business.  PTOI of $52 million reflects the acquisition and favorable product mix in Solae.  PTOI includes $20 million of amortization expense associated with the fair value step-up of acquired intangible assets.
 
Performance Chemicals -
Sales of $1.9 billion were up 12 percent, with 29 percent higher selling prices and 17 percent lower volume.  Higher selling prices reflect pricing actions to offset higher raw material costs.  Lower volume was attributable to a pause in demand for titanium dioxide, particularly in Asia Pacific.  PTOI of $433 million increased $118 million on higher selling prices.
 
Performance Coatings -
Sales of $1.1 billion were up 8 percent, with 10 percent higher selling prices and 2 percent lower volume.  Higher selling prices reflect pricing actions across all market segments to offset higher raw material costs.  Lower volume resulted from destocking and flat/lower builds in all regions except North America.  Demand continued to be strong in the North American OEM motor vehicle and heavy duty truck markets.  PTOI of $58 million decreased on weaker mix and a $7 million settlement.
 
Performance Materials -
Sales of $1.6 billion were up 1 percent, with 14 percent higher selling prices and 13 percent lower volume. Higher selling prices offset higher raw material costs.  Lower volume reflects broad-based channel destocking along with softening in consumer and industrial markets.  PTOI of $151 million decreased due to lower volume and the absence of a prior year $31 million combined benefit from an acquisition and an early termination of a supply agreement.
 
Safety & Protection -
Sales of $943 million were up 10 percent, with a 7 percent increase from the MECS acquisition and 5 percent higher selling prices, partially offset by 2 percent lower volume.  Higher selling prices more than offset raw material cost increases.  Volume was lower on destocking in the industrial markets.  PTOI of $94 million was essentially flat.  Prior year included a net $11 million charge related to an asset impairment and a separate gain on an asset sale.
 
Additional information is available on the DuPont Investor Center website at www.dupont.com.
Outlook
 
DuPont reaffirms its full-year 2012 earnings outlook of $4.20 to $4.40 per share, an increase of 7 to 12 percent versus 2011, excluding significant items.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
Management believes that certain non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company.  Such measurements are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance.  Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP are provided in schedules C and D.
 
DuPont (NYSE: DD) has been bringing world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace in the form of innovative products, materials, and services since 1802.  The company believes that by collaborating with customers, governments, NGOs, and thought leaders we can help find solutions to such global challenges as providing enough healthy food for people everywhere, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, and protecting life and the environment.  For additional information about DuPont and its commitment to inclusive innovation, please visit http://www.dupont.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
:  This news release contains forward-looking statements which may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "expects," "will," "believes," "intends," "estimates" or other words of similar meaning.  All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's growth strategy, product development, regulatory approval, market position, anticipated benefits of acquisitions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.  Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company's control.  Some of the important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; significant litigation and environmental matters; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, weather events and natural disasters; inability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual property rights; and integration of acquired businesses and completion of divestitures of underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses.  The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments or new information.
 
01/24/12
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
(a)
 See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE A (continued)
 
 
SCHEDULE B
SIGNIFICANT ITEMS
 
 
 
See Schedule C for detail by segment.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C
 
 
(1)
   Sales for the reporting segments include transfers.
SCHEDULE C (continued)
 
 
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule D for additional information on exchange gains and losses.
(2)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D
 
Summary of Earnings Comparisons
 
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Reconciliations of Adjusted EBIT / EBITDA to Consolidated Income Statements
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
 
 
Reconciliations of Fixed Costs as a Percent of Sales
 
 
(1)
  Includes variable manufacturing costs, freight, commissions and other selling expenses which vary with the volume of sales.
(2)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
SCHEDULE D (continued)
 
Exchange Gains/(Losses)
The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in Other income, net and the related tax impact is recorded in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes on the Consolidated Income Statements.
 
 
As shown above, the "Total Exchange Gain (Loss)" is the sum of the "Subsidiary/Affiliate Monetary Position Gain (Loss)" and the "Hedging Program Gain (Loss)." 
 
Reconciliation of Base Income Tax Rate to Effective Income Tax Rate
Base income tax rate is defined as the effective income tax rate less the effect of exchange gains/losses, as defined above, and significant items.
 
 
(1)
  See Schedule B for detail of significant items.
 


