FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20030403181032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (
408) 732-2400
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events.
 
On March 31, 2003, the registrant and Fujitsu Limited issued a press release announcing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding to establish a new Flash memory semiconductor joint venture company. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated into this item of this report as if fully set forth herein.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) and Fujitsu Limited (TSE: 6702, "Fujitsu") today announced they have executed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to establish a new Flash memory semiconductor company headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. A Japan headquarters will be located in Tokyo. The new company, to be called FASL LLC, will be based on the integration of AMD and Fujitsu's Flash memory businesses, including their existing joint manufacturing venture, Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited. The new company is expected to begin operations in the third quarter of this year.
SUNNYVALE, CAMARCH 31, 2003
 
 
 
The combination of a customer-centric approach, industry-leading technology expertise, integrated manufacturing, and a streamlined business model is intended to create the pre-eminent global Flash memory provider.
"Customers are looking for a strong, collaborative partner in the Flash memory category, and that's what we intend to create with this new company," said Hector Ruiz, AMD president and chief executive officer. "AMD and Fujitsu have a long history of cooperation. Our joint manufacturing venture, which commenced in 1993, has been a model of success for U.S.-Japanese joint ventures. Today we are taking that relationship to the next level. I believe this new flash memory company will have all of the necessary ingredients, including scale of operations and revenues, to contend for market leadership. This is the right move, at the right time, for both our customers and our companies."
 
The MOU provides for:
 
 
 
AMD expects to contribute its:
 
Fujitsu plans to contribute its:
 
Fujitsu and AMD plan to jointly contribute:
 
"We expect this new company to be a more formidable competitor in the Flash memory business," said Masamichi Ogura, Fujitsu Limited corporate senior vice president and group president of Fujitsu's Electronic Devices Business Group. "By joining together in a more comprehensive alliance, we can improve our market position through consolidated research and development efforts, as well as benefit from greater access to each other's technology and manufacturing expertise. Both AMD and Fujitsu share a common goal to make FASL a market leader in the Flash memory business and today's MOU is an important step towards reaching that goal."
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that the transaction might not be implemented because the memorandum of understanding is non-binding and is subject to the execution of definitive documents and regulatory approvals, the possibility that the new combined company will not be successful because of problems integrating the operations and employees of the two companies or in achieving the efficiencies and other advantages intended by the transaction, and the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand for Flash memory products. We urge investors to review in detail the other risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2002.
 
About AMD
AMD is a global supplier of integrated circuits for the personal and networked computer and communications markets with manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe, Japan, and Asia. AMD, a Fortune 500 and Standard & Poor's 500 company, produces microprocessors, Flash memory devices, and support circuitry for communications and networking applications. Founded in 1969 and based in Sunnyvale, California, AMD had revenues of approximately $2.7 billion in 2002. (NYSE: AMD).
 
 
 
AMD on the Web
For more information about AMD products, please visit our virtual pressroom at . Additional press releases and information about AMD and its products are available at .
www.amd.com/news/virtualpress/index.html
www.amd.com/news/news.html
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective companies.
 
About Fujitsu Limited
Fujitsu is a leading provider of customer-focused IT and communications solutions for the global marketplace. Pace-setting technologies, high-reliability/performance computing and telecommunications platforms, and a worldwide corps of systems and services experts make Fujitsu uniquely positioned to unleash the infinite possibilities of the broadband Internet to help its customers succeed. Headquartered in Tokyo, Fujitsu Limited (TSE:6702) reported consolidated revenues of 5 trillion yen (about US$38 billion) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002.
For more information, please see:
http://www.fujitsu.com/
 
 
 


