FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20030716165312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(408) 732-2400
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On July 16, 2003, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the second quarter ended June 29, 2003 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
A Pro Forma Non-GAAP Consolidated Statement of Operations is presented in the earnings release. The Pro Forma Non-GAAP Consolidated Statement of Operations excludes restructuring charges that impacted the registrant's results of operations. Specifically, the Company has excluded restructuring charges and has included pre-tax income from FASL in operating income. Management uses this information excluding these charges and as presented in evaluating results of the continuing operations of the Company and believes that this information provides the users of the financial statements a valuable insight into the underlying results of operations of the Company and facilitates comparison between the Company and other companies.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net loss for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
Pro Forma EBITDA is also presented in the earnings release. Pro Forma EBITDA is defined by the Company as EBITDA, excluding restructuring charges. Management believes that excluding these items provides insight into the underlying results of operations and facilitates comparison between the Company and other companies, since these restructuring charges represent costs associated with unusual or infrequent events or transactions. Pro Forma EBITDA is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA do not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
CONTACTS:
Morris Denton
Corporate Public Relations
mobile (512) 751-8416
email: morris.denton@amd.com
 
Mike Haase
Investor Relations
(408) 749-3124
email: mike.haase@amd.com
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $645 million and a net loss of $140 million for the quarter ended June 29, 2003. The net loss amounted to $0.40 per share.
SUNNYVALE, CAJuly 16, 2003
 
Second quarter sales increased by seven percent from the second quarter of 2002 and decreased by 10 percent from the first quarter of 2003. In the second quarter of 2002, AMD reported total sales of $600 million and a net loss of $185 million, or $0.54 per share. In the first quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $715 million and a net loss of $146 million, or $0.42 per share.
 
 
"We are pleased we lowered our operating breakeven point to below $800 million and continued to realize improvements that better position us for growth and a return to profitability," said Robert J. Rivet, chief financial officer. "Despite the effects of the SARS epidemic and weaker than anticipated channel sales in some of our international markets, we reduced our net loss by 24 percent and increased our gross margin as a result of year-on-year sales growth and effective cost management. Quarter-on-quarter, in spite of a sales decline of $69 million, we still managed to reduce our loss and improve our gross margin.
 
"Our second quarter operating costs of $769 million compared favorably to $897 million in the second quarter of 2002 and to $840 million in the first quarter of 2003. We increased our positive EBITDA quarter-to-quarter and ended the second quarter with a cash balance of $739 million. In addition, we extended our $200 million revolving line of credit, currently untapped, for four years.
 
"Our recently introduced AMD Opteron
TM
processor for servers and workstations is gaining traction in the marketplace. We look forward to the introduction of AMD Opteron processor-based systems from IBM, Fujitsu Siemens and others in the near future. In addition, our AMD Athlon
TM
64 processor for the desktop and mobile PC sectors remains on schedule for a September launch.
 
"With the successful launch of a single entity that integrates Fujitsu's and AMD's Flash memory operations, we believe we are on target to become the number one provider of Flash memory solutions and are focused on establishing Spansion
TM
Flash memory as the pre-eminent brand in the Flash memory market."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
PC processor sales of $402 million were up 7 percent year-on-year and decreased by 14 percent from the $468 million reported in the first quarter of 2003. Increased second quarter sales to our Tier One OEM customer base
 
 
were more than off-set by a decline in the desktop segment, especially in the Asian and European market geographies, where sales were off significantly.
 
Initial interest and demand for AMD Opteron processors has been tremendous. End-user installations and testing are producing outstanding results in performance and reduced total cost of ownership. AMD expanded its family of AMD Opteron processors with availability of the new AMD Opteron processor 800 Series, for 4-way and 8-way servers and the 100 Series, for 1-way servers and workstations. During the second quarter, AMD also introduced several new processor offerings including the AMD Athlon XP processor 3200+ for desktop computers, and three new mobile processors designed for both thin-and-light and desktop replacement notebook computers. With the upcoming launch of the AMD Athlon 64 processor on September 23, AMD will introduce the world's first 64-bit PC processor, providing users superior performance and full binary compatibility with today's 32-bit applications as well as a seamless migration path to pervasive 64-bit computing.
 
AMD memory sales of $211 million for the second quarter were down slightly from the $218 million reported in the first quarter of 2003. Year-over-year, memory sales were up 20 percent compared to the $175 million in the second quarter of 2002. While the SARS epidemic caused a decline in demand for cellular handsets and resulted in significantly lower memory sales for AMD in Asia, this decline was almost entirely off-set by increased memory sales in North America and Europe. We continued our share gains in the high-end cellular handset market and maintained our leadership position in high density Flash. Bit shipments grew for the seventh consecutive quarter, once again to record levels. Our average Flash density nearly doubled compared to the second quarter of 2002.
 
In March, AMD signed an MOU with Fujitsu to consolidate the two companies' Flash memory operations into a single entity. The two companies recently completed the transaction and announced the formation of a new Flash memory semiconductor company, owned 60 percent by AMD, that markets its solutions under the Spansion brand. As a result of the
 
 
consolidation of FASL LLC, at the start of the third quarter AMD's consolidated balance sheet will take on incremental assets and liabilities of approximately $1 billion, which includes $180 million in cash and $190 million in debt. With state-of-the-art wafer fab facilities, leading edge process technology, innovative product design, approximately 7,000 employees and total assets of nearly $3 billion, we believe the company will be the world's number one Flash memory provider.
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially. Economic and industry conditions remain uncertain, and continue to make it particularly difficult to forecast product demand. The company's current outlook for the third quarter of 2003 is based on the following projections and includes the incremental effect from the inclusion of FASL LLC operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 PM Pacific Time today to discuss second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its web site at or . The web-cast will be available for ten days after the conference call.
http://www.amd.com
http://www.StreetEvents.com
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the third quarter of 2003; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current PC processor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's PC processors will be lower than currently expected; that the sales of AMD PC processors will not follow seasonal patterns or worse in the third quarter despite the availability of a richer mix of the company's products; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected, particularly in the high-end cellular telephone sector; that we will not be successful integrating the Flash operations of FASL LLC, or be able to achieve or sustain any benefit from its creation; that the company will not achieve sequential growth in sales of Flash memory devices; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules including the current schedule for introducing the AMD Athlon 64 processor, or the schedule for implementing 90nm process technology in Fab 30. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2002, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2003.
 
 
About AMD
 
Founded in 1969 and based in Sunnyvale, California, AMD is a global supplier of integrated circuits for the personal and networked computer and communications markets with manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe, Japan, and Asia. AMD, a Standard & Poor's 500 company, produces microprocessors, Flash memory devices, and silicon-based solutions for communications and networking applications.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices. Spansion is a trademark of FASL LLC. Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other product and company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective companies.
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO PRO FORMA NON-GAAP CONSOLIDATED NET LOSS
(Thousands)
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF EBITDA TO PROFORMA EBITDA
 
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
PRO FORMA NON-GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Includes Pre-Tax FASL Investment Equity Income in Operating Loss and other proforma adjustments)
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 


