FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20030422193244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12.    Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On April 16, 2003, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the first quarter ended March 30, 2003 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
A Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations is presented in the earnings release. Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations excludes restructuring and other charges that impacted the registrant's results of operations. Specifically, the Company has excluded restructuring charges and charges relating to impaired investments, a discrete research and development charge and a write-off of deferred tax assets. Management uses this information excluding these charges in evaluating results of the continuing operations of the Company and believes that this information provides the users of the financial statements a valuable insight into the underlying results of operations of the Company and facilitates comparison between the Company and other companies.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adding depreciation and amortization to operating loss. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
Pro Forma EBITDA is also presented in the earnings release. Pro Forma EBITDA is defined by the Company as EBITDA, excluding restructuring charges and a discrete research and development charge, and including pro forma pre-tax income from our equity investment in FASL. Management believes that adjusting EBITDA for these items provides insight into the underlying results of operations and facilitates comparison between the Company and other companies, since these restructuring and other special charges represent costs associated with unusual or infrequent events or transactions. Pro Forma EBITDA is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA do not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA and Pro Forma EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACTS:
Morris Denton
Corporate Public Relations
(408) 749-3310
email: morris.denton@amd.com
 
Mike Haase
Investor Relations
(408) 749-3124
email: mike.haase@amd.com
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $715 million and a net loss of $146 million for the quarter ended March 30, 2003. The net loss amounted to $0.42 per share.
SUNNYVALE, CAAPRIL 16, 2003
 
First quarter sales declined by 21 percent from the first quarter of 2002 and increased by four percent from the fourth quarter of 2002. In the first quarter of 2002, AMD reported total sales of $902 million and a net loss of $9 million, or $0.03 per share. In the fourth quarter of 2002, AMD reported sales of $686 million and a net loss of $855 million, or $2.49 per share. Excluding the effects of restructuring and other charges
1
to show the company's results from ongoing operations, the fourth quarter net loss was $235 million, or $0.68 per share.
 
 
 
"In a tough market environment and in a quarter that is typically seasonally down, we grew our revenue by four percent from the fourth quarter of 2002," said Robert J. Rivet, chief financial officer. "We believe we gained market share in both our PC processor and Flash memory product lines. And we made significant operating improvements that better position us for a return to profitability.
 
"Our enhanced AMD Athlon
processor portfolio, along with increased customer demand, led to a sequential increase of 11 percent in PC processor sales. And despite a seasonal weakening of the global market for flash memory solutions, the first quarter was our fourth consecutive quarter of revenue growth and record bit shipments.
 
"As projected, we reduced our operating expenses significantly compared to the fourth quarter of 2002. As a result of our improved cost structure, along with the increase in sales, EBITDA was a positive $84 million
1
and our operating loss improved by more than $90 million
1
in the first quarter as compared with our pro forma results of the fourth quarter 2002."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
PC processor sales of $468 million for the quarter increased by 11 percent from the $420 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2002. AMD showed a significant increase in both unit and dollar sales, based on record mobile shipments and increased penetration into emerging markets, led by China.
 
During the first quarter, AMD commenced production shipments of AMD Opteron
processors for the server and workstation markets. The launch of the AMD Opteron processor family will occur in New York on April 22.
 
Also in the first quarter, AMD introduced several new processor offerings including the AMD Athlon XP processor 3000+, the highest performing desktop PC microprocessor. In addition, AMD introduced 12 new mobile processors including the first AMD Athlon processors targeted for thin-and-light notebooks. These are the first AMD Athlon processors targeted for thin-and-light notebooks.
 
 
 
AMD memory sales of $218 million were up for the fourth consecutive quarter, on increased unit sales driven by our product portfolio for the cellular phone market and continued demand for high-end, feature-rich phones.
 
AMD qualified production on 130 nanometer process technology in AMD's Fab 25 Flash memory fab in the first quarter and will commence volume production on 130 nanometer process technology in the second quarter.
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially. Economic and industry conditions remain uncertain, and continue to make it particularly difficult to forecast product demand. The company's current outlook for the second quarter is based on the following projections:
 
 
 
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 PM Pacific Time today to discuss first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its web site at or . The web-cast will be available for ten days after the conference call.
http://www.amd.com
http://www.StreetEvents.com
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the second quarter of 2003; that Intel Corporation pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current PC processor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's PC processors will be lower than currently expected; that the sales of AMD PC processors will follow seasonal patterns or worse in the second quarter despite the availability of a richer mix of the company's products; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected, particularly in the high-end cellular telephone sector; that the company will not achieve sequential growth in sales of Flash memory devices; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules including the current schedule for introducing AMD Athlon XP processors based on the "Barton" core or the AMD Opteron processor based on AMD 64-bit technology, or the schedule for implementing 90nm process technology in Fab 30; and that the company may not be able to successfully implement the new proposed joint venture with Fujitsu, Ltd. and sustain any benefit from such joint venture. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2002.
 
 
 
About AMD
 
Founded in 1969 and based in Sunnyvale, California, AMD is a global supplier of integrated circuits for the personal and networked computer and communications markets with manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe, Japan, and Asia. AMD, a Standard & Poor's 500 company, produces microprocessors, Flash memory devices, and silicon-based solutions for communications and networking applications.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. in the United States and other jurisdictions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


