FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20040414171620.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report:
 
 
Items 9 and 12.         Regulation FD Disclosure and Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On April 14, 2004, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter ended March 28, 2004 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $1.236 billion and net income of $45 million for the quarter ended March 28, 2004. Net income amounted to $0.12 per diluted share.
SUNNYVALE, CA, April 14, 2004 
 
First quarter sales increased by 73 percent from the first quarter of 2003 and increased by three percent from the fourth quarter of 2003. In the first quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $715 million and a net loss of $146 million, or $0.42 per share. In the fourth quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $1.2 billion and net income of $43 million, or $0.12 per diluted share.
 
"Our performance in the first quarter of 2004 was driven by record sales, solid growth and strong execution," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Our Flash memory and microprocessor businesses delivered solid sales results in a seasonally down quarter and both business lines were profitable. Sales were especially strong in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
 
"AMD continued to increase its market leadership position in the wireless handset and embedded markets on the strength of our Spansion Flash memory solutions. During the quarter,
 
products based on MirrorBit technology continued to gain solid acceptance, reflecting strong customer demand for their compelling price-performance advantage. In addition, we believe Spansion strengthened its NOR Flash market leadership position as it outpaced growth of the overall Flash market.
 
"Adoption of our leading AMD64 platform continued to accelerate with processor unit volume shipments more than doubling quarter on quarter. Responding to strong enterprise demand, AMD Opteron processor momentum continued with HP and Sun Microsystems shipping AMD Opteron processor-based servers for the first time. HP and Sun joined IBM and Fujitsu-Siemens and many other customers now offering leading-edge AMD Opteron processor solutions for the server and workstation markets."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
The combination of sales growth, improved gross margin and disciplined expense management led to an increase in operating income to $61 million in the first quarter of 2004, as compared to $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The company reported an operating loss of $125 million in the first quarter of 2003. The gross margin improved by more than two percentage points over the fourth quarter of 2003 to 37.8 percent, largely driven by improved Flash memory sales and higher average selling prices (ASPs) from each of the two major business lines. In addition, cash flow from operations was positive for the third consecutive quarter and the cash and short-term investment balance as of March 28, 2004 remained at $1.3 billion.
 
The Memory Group achieved record sales of $628 million in the first quarter of 2004. This was an increase of 11 percent from the $566 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and 188 percent from $218 million in the first quarter of 2003. The consolidation of FASL LLC began in the third quarter of 2003. In only its third quarter of existence since the integration of AMD's and Fujitsu's Flash memory operations, the Flash memory business achieved profitability in the quarter with operating income of $14 million, improving from an operating loss of $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The
 
improved Flash memory operating results were driven largely by increased sales, higher ASPs and improved cost synergies.
 
Flash memory sales grew during the first quarter due to strong performance in the wireless and embedded markets and increased shipments of products based on MirrorBit technology. Geographically, sales were especially strong in Asia Pacific and the Americas. Spansion's Flash wafer facilities are aggressively ramping production at 110nm technology to meet increased customer demand for leading-edge products.
 
Computation Products Group (CPG) sales were $571 million in the first quarter of 2004. In a seasonally weak first quarter, this is a decrease of only two percent from the $581 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and an increase of 22 percent from $470 million in the first quarter of 2003. CPG generated operating income of $67 million in the first quarter, an improvement from the $63 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, on the strength of a richer product mix.
 
Demand for the AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon 64 and AMD Athlon XP families of microprocessors remained strong. ASPs increased for the fourth straight quarter enhanced by continued penetration of the enterprise market. The AMD Opteron processor continued to see strong adoption in diverse vertical segments including financial services, web infrastructure, government, pharmaceutical, petrochemical and digital content creation. In addition, AMD Athlon 64 FX processor sales continued to be very strong in the gaming and PC enthusiasts' markets.
 
AMD's manufacturing transition to 90nm production for AMD64 processors is on-track with strong yields demonstrating excellent power consumption and heat dissipation characteristics. AMD will be initiating volume 90nm production in the second quarter and expects to deliver products for revenue in the third quarter of 2004.
 
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially. Economic and industry conditions remain uncertain and continue to make it particularly difficult to forecast product demand. AMD's current outlook for the second quarter of 2004 is based on the following projections:
 
 
 
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 3:00 PM Pacific Time today to discuss first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for ten days after the conference call.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the second quarter of 2004; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that Intel Corporation's announcement of its x86 64-bit offering will affect the sales ramp of AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 processors; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's
 
processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 processor-based products by Tier One OEMs will not occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected, particularly in the high-end cellular telephone sector, and that the company will not be able to increase our Flash memory market share; that Intel Corporation will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that the company will not continue to be successful integrating the Flash memory operations of FASL LLC, or be able to achieve or sustain any benefit from its creation; that the company will not be able to meet demand for its products; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company's transition to 90nm manufacturing processes for processors and 110nm manufacturing processes for Flash memory will not occur in the expected timeframe and that the company will not recognize the expected benefits from the technology transition; and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2003.
 
About AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces microprocessors, Flash memory devices and low-power processor solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to helping its customers deliver standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises to government agencies and individual consumers. Founded in 1969, AMD is a Standard & Poor's 500 company with global operations and manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. For more information visit http://www.amd.com.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, and combinations thereof, Cool'n'Quiet, Alchemy, and Au1550 are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion, MirrorBit, and FASL are trademarks of FASL LLC. SPEC is a registered trademark of Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other product and company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective companies.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
 
(Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


