FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20041007162129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 and Item 7.01. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On October 7, 2004, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter ended September 26, 2004 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported sales of $1.239 billion and net income of $44 million for the quarter ended September 26, 2004. Net income amounted to $0.12 per diluted share.
SUNNYVALE, CA  Oct. 7, 2004 
 
Third quarter sales increased by 30 percent compared to the same period in 2003 and decreased by two percent from the second quarter of 2004. In the third quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $954 million and a net loss of $31 million, or $0.09 per share. In the second quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.262 billion and net income of $32 million, or $0.09 per diluted share.
 
"Our third quarter net income improvement was largely driven by a 21 percent sequential increase in Computation Products Group (CPG) sales and improved gross margin in the Memory Group," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "AMD64 processor sales represented over one-third of our total CPG sales. Sales growth was driven by both higher average selling price (ASP) and increased unit volumes.
 
"The successful transition to 110nm technology and excellent cost management allowed the Memory Group to remain profitable despite weaker than expected sales into the wireless handset market."
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
Third quarter operating income of $68 million improved from an operating loss of $30 million in the third quarter of 2003 and declined slightly from $72 million in the prior quarter. Third quarter gross margin increased to 40 percent from 38 percent in the second quarter of 2004. The improvement was largely due to strong processor sales growth and excellent execution of process technology transitions in both businesses.
 
Computation Products Group sales were $673 million in the third quarter of 2004. This is an increase of 34 percent from $503 million in the third quarter of 2003 and is a 21 percent increase from $554 million in the second quarter of 2004. CPG generated operating income of $89 million in the third quarter, up from $58 million in the second quarter of 2004.
 
CPG's improved profitability and higher ASP were driven primarily by a significant increase in processor sales across all markets, with AMD64 processor shipments nearly doubling over the previous quarter. The company also successfully launched the AMD Sempron processor family in the third quarter. This helped drive significant CPG sales growth in China. In addition, AMD Athlon 64 processors based on 90nm technology began shipping for revenue in the quarter.
 
Memory Group sales were $538 million in the third quarter, an increase of 27 percent from $424 million in the third quarter of 2003 and a decline of 20 percent from $673 million in the second quarter of 2004. The Memory Group generated operating income of $15 million, down from $45 million in the prior quarter. Third quarter profitability was largely driven by the successful transition to 110nm technology, the smallest node in production by any NOR Flash memory company, as well as increased shipments of Flash memory products based on MirrorBit technology.
 
Flash memory sales into the embedded market remained solid. Flash memory sales into the wireless handset market declined significantly, resulting in a lower Flash memory ASP.
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions. In the fourth quarter of 2004, AMD expects overall sales to increase, driven by processor sales that exceed seasonal trends, and flat-to-up Flash memory sales.
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PT today to discuss third-quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the fourth quarter of 2004; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption
 
of AMD64 products by OEMs will not occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected, particularly in the high-end mobile telephone sector and that the company will not be able to increase Flash memory market share; that Intel Corporation will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that the company will not be able to meet demand for its products; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company's transition to 90nm manufacturing processes for processors and 110nm manufacturing processes for Flash memory will not occur in the expected timeframe and that the company will not recognize the expected benefits from the technology transition; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2003, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 2004.
 
ABOUT AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces innovative microprocessors, Flash memory devices and low-power processor solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to delivering standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises and governments to individual consumers. For more information visit www.amd.com.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Sempron, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of Spansion LLC. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding


