FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20040120162415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (
408) 732-2400
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On January 20, 2004, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter and year ended December 28, 2003 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $1.206 billion and net income of $43 million for the quarter ended December 28, 2003. Net income amounted to $0.12 per share.
SUNNYVALE, CA  January 20, 2004 
 
Fourth quarter sales increased by 76 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002 and increased by 26 percent from the third quarter of 2003. In the fourth quarter of 2002, AMD reported sales of $686 million and a net loss of $855 million, or $2.49 per share. In the third quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $954 million and a net loss of $31 million, or $0.09 per share.
 
The fourth quarter results include a favorable impact of $14 million, or $0.03 per share, due to an adjustment to previously recorded restructuring charges and purchase accounting related to the FASL LLC transaction. The third quarter of 2003 results included a favorable impact of $8 million, or $0.02 per share, due to an adjustment to previously recorded restructuring charges.
 
For the full year ended December 28, 2003, sales increased by 30 percent from 2002. For fiscal 2003, AMD reported sales of $3.5 billion and a net loss of $274 million, or $0.79 per share. AMD reported sales in 2002 of $2.7 billion and a net loss of $1.3 billion, or $3.81 per share.
 
"Fourth quarter profitability was driven by solid sales growth across all business lines," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Sales increased in all regions, and we saw continued penetration in emerging markets, highlighted by record sales in China and Latin America. We continued to achieve high yields across all product lines based on our leading-edge processes and award-winning fabs.
 
"We saw positive growth across all microprocessor brands, including strong AMD Athlon XP processor sales in the fourth quarter. Furthermore, we continue to lead the industry to pervasive 64-bit computing based on increasing adoption of AMD Athlon 64 and AMD Opteron processors. The addition of new global customers such as Daimler Chrysler, Qualcomm, Pirelli and Bristol-Myers Squibb demonstrate that we have a clear winner in our AMD Opteron processor.
 
"In its second quarter of existence, our Spansion Flash memory brand has increased its market share leadership in the growing NOR Flash market. We increased sales to our existing customer base and added new wireless and consumer electronics customers, especially in emerging markets. MirrorBit technology continues to earn widespread acceptance as an emerging industry standard, and was our fastest growing memory product line."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
As a result of 26 percent sequential sales growth, AMD recorded a fourth quarter operating profit of $46 million. Cash flow from operations was positive for the second quarter in a row and AMD ended the fourth quarter with a cash balance of $1.313 billion, up from $1.076 billion at the end of the third quarter.
 
Computation Products Group (CPG) sales of $581 million were up 38 percent as compared to the fourth quarter of 2002 and increased by 15 percent from $503 million in the third quarter of 2003. CPG generated operating income of $63 million in the fourth quarter, up from $19 million in the third quarter, on the strength of an improved average selling price (ASP) and higher unit volumes.
 
During the quarter, there was strong demand for the AMD Athlon XP desktop processor line and its superior price-performance, which helped drive the increase in ASP. In addition, momentum for AMD64 processors continued to increase. AMD Opteron processor sales grew in the fourth quarter with solid penetration in the enterprise segment. AMD Athlon 64 FX processor sales were strong, and the company believes it is becoming the platform of choice for enthusiasts. IBM, HP and Fujitsu-Siemens began selling AMD64 processor-based systems in the fourth quarter and Sun Microsystems announced plans to deliver AMD Opteron processor-based enterprise servers in the first half of 2004.
 
Flash memory sales of $566 million in the fourth quarter increased 34 percent from $424 million in the third quarter of 2003 and were up 161 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002. The Flash memory business narrowed its operating loss to $3 million in the fourth quarter.
 
Flash memory sales growth over the third quarter was attributable to large Spansion Flash memory market share gains in the wireless and consumer electronics segments and strong seasonal growth. The business also experienced an increase in average bit density in the Flash products it sold. AMD's Flash operation successfully qualified 110 nm floating gate technology in the quarter, an important milestone on its path to expand the company's leading-edge capacity.
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially. Economic and industry conditions remain uncertain and continue to make it particularly difficult to forecast product demand. AMD's current outlook for the first quarter of 2004 is based on the following projections:
 
 
 
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 PM Pacific Time today to discuss fourth quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its web site at or . The web-cast will be available for ten days after the conference call.
http://www.amd.com
http://www.StreetEvents.com
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainty that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the first quarter of 2004; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that Intel Corporation will announce an x86-64 bit offering that will affect the sales ramp of AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 processors; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 processor-based products by Tier One OEMs will not occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected, particularly in the high-end cellular telephone sector, and that we will not be able to increase our Flash memory market share; that Intel Corporation will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that we will not continue to be successful integrating the Flash operations of FASL LLC, or be able to achieve or sustain any benefit from its creation; that the company will not be able to meet demand for its products; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2002, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2003.
 
About AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces microprocessors, Flash memory devices and system-on-chip solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to helping its customers deliver standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises to government agencies and individual consumers. Founded in 1969, AMD is a Standard & Poor's 500 company with global operations and manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of FASL LLC. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other product and company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective companies.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
*Derived from the December 29, 2002 audited financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF NET Income (LOSS) TO EBITDA
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding


