FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20041015142829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
In connection with a proposed financing, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") is providing the following information in compliance with Regulation FD.
Except as otherwise indicated in this current report on Form 8-K, or as the context may otherwise indicate, in this current report on Form 8-K the words "we", "our", "ours", "us" and "AMD" refer to Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Spansion LLC is the Company's majority-owned subsidiary, of which 60% is owned by the Company and 40% is owned by Fujitsu Limited.
 
 
The following table sets forth summary restricted group unaudited consolidated financial data for the year ended December 28, 2003 and the six months and twelve months ended June 27, 2004. As of the issue date of the notes, Spansion LLC and its subsidiaries will constitute "unrestricted subsidiaries" as defined under the indenture that will govern the notes. The restricted group's consolidated financial data does not include the results of operations of Spansion LLC and its subsidiaries for periods subsequent to June 29, 2003. The restricted group consolidated financial data is presented in order to provide investors with financial information that substantially reflects as of the issue date of the notes the results of operations of that portion of our business that will be designated as "restricted subsidiaries." Periods prior to June 29, 2003 include AMD sales attributable to our memory business, which was contributed to Spansion LLC on June 30, 2003.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
 


