FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20050118165831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 and Item 7.01. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On January 18, 2005, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter and year ended December 26, 2004 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported record sales of $1.26 billion and operating income of $20 million for the quarter ended December 26, 2004. The fourth quarter net loss of $30 million, or $0.08 per share, includes charges of $49 million, or $0.13 per share, largely associated with the conversion and retirement of debt.
SUNNYVALE, CA  Jan. 18, 2005 
 
Fourth quarter sales increased by five percent from the fourth quarter of 2003 and were up two percent from the third quarter of 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2003, AMD reported sales of $1.21 billion and net income of $43 million, or $0.12 per share. In the third quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.24 billion and net income of $44 million, or $0.12 per share.
 
For the full year ended December 26, 2004, AMD achieved record sales of $5 billion, a 42 percent increase from 2003. Fiscal year 2004 net income was $91 million, or $0.25 per share, including charges of $51.6 million, or $0.14 per share. AMD reported sales in 2003 of $3.52 billion and a net loss of $274 million, or $0.79 per share, including credits of $13.9 million, or $0.04 cents per share.
 
"In 2004 both the processor and Flash memory businesses were profitable," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Total sales increased by 42 percent compared with 2003, driven by 29 percent growth in our microprocessor business and 65 percent growth in our Flash memory business.
 
 
"Fourth quarter sales growth was largely due to a nine percent increase in Computation Products Group (CPG) sales, helping AMD report its tenth consecutive quarter of improved gross margin. Record fourth quarter microprocessor sales were driven by increased server and mobile dollar and unit sales. As anticipated, AMD64 processor sales increased to 50 percent of total PC processor sales for the quarter.
 
"Memory Group sales were weaker than expected due to an aggressive pricing environment, significantly lower sales in Japan, and a delay in qualifying a new product in the wireless segment. Products based on MirrorBit technology continued to earn customer acceptance and increased as an overall percentage of Flash memory sales.
 
"As planned, we took significant steps to improve our balance sheet and liquidity position during the quarter, which reduced our debt by $200 million. This was the result of converting $200 million of convertible debt to equity and refinancing the $600 million outstanding on our Fab 30 loan."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
Fourth quarter operating income of $20 million declined from $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and from $68 million in the third quarter of 2004. This was the fifth consecutive quarter of positive operating income for the company. Operating expenses of $498 million increased from $389 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 and from $433 million in the prior quarter. Fourth quarter research and development costs increased 9 percent as compared to the prior quarter largely due to Fab 36 start-up costs. Marketing, general and administrative costs increased 21 percent as compared to the third quarter of 2004 primarily due to seasonal merchandising activities, previously guided increased marketing investments and SOX certification costs.
 
Fourth quarter gross margin increased to 41 percent from 40 percent in the third quarter of 2004 due to processor sales growth. AMD ended the fourth quarter with a cash balance of $1.20 billion, up from $1.19 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2004.
 
Record CPG sales of $730 million were up 26 percent over the fourth quarter of 2003 and increased by nine percent from $673 million in the third quarter of 2004. CPG generated operating income of $89 million in the fourth quarter, flat compared with $89 million in the third quarter.
 
 
CPG's sales growth was driven by a double-digit percentage unit shipment increase across all segments in the fourth quarter with particularly strong sales in high-growth regions. Both server and mobile processor sales achieved new records.
 
Memory Group sales of $504 million decreased 11 percent from the fourth quarter of 2003 and were down six percent from $538 million in the prior quarter. The Memory Group incurred an operating loss of $39 million, down from operating income of $15 million in the third quarter of 2004. The average bit density in Spansion Flash memory products grew in the quarter and the Memory Group shipped a record number of bits, with MirrorBit technology increasing as a larger percentage of overall bits shipped.
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
 
Based on the strong acceptance of AMD64 technology, AMD expects its processor momentum to increase as the year unfolds. In the first quarter, AMD expects processor sales to be flat to down slightly in the typically seasonally down quarter.
 
AMD expects Flash memory sales to be down in the first quarter due to continued imbalance in supply and demand, continued pressure on ASPs and seasonality.
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PT today to discuss fourth quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the first quarter of 2005; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected and that the company will not be able to increase or maintain Flash memory market share; that Intel Corporation will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2003, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2004.
 
ABOUT AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces innovative microprocessors, Flash memory devices and low-power processor solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to delivering standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises and governments to individual consumers. For more information visit www.amd.com.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Sempron and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of Spansion LLC. Microsoft is a registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
(Thousands)
 
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding
 


