FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20051128170342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On November 28, 2005, Spansion, a majority-owned subsidiary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company"), filed Amendment No. 7 to its Registration Statement on Form S-1, which included an update to Spansion's outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Accordingly, the Company is filing this amendment to its Current Report on Form 8-K originally filed on October 21, 2005, to provide the following information in connection with its Memory Products Group.
 
For the Memory Products Group, gross margin increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 by seven percent as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2005 due to a 15 percent increase in unit shipments, partially offset by a three percent decrease in average selling prices. Gross margin also was favorably impacted by three factors: a greater percentage of MirrorBit products shipped; a greater percentage of higher density products shipped; and increased utilization of Spansion's manufacturing facilities. The Company expects these trends to continue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 resulting in continued improvement in gross margins for the Memory Products Group. However, the Company expects the Memory Products Group to incur an operating loss in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, primarily because Spansion's fabrication facilities are not operating at full capacity due in part to constraints in Spansion's testing capacity for some of the Flash memory products ordered by customers during the quarter. Spansion is in the process of addressing its need for additional testing capacity.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


