FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20050713163617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 and Item 7.01. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On July 13, 2005, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter ended June 26, 2005 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $1.260 billion and net income of $11 million, amounting to $0.03 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 26, 2005.
SUNNYVALE, CA  July 13, 2005 
 
Second quarter sales were flat compared to the second quarter of 2004 and increased three percent from the first quarter of 2005. In the second quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.262 billion and net income of $32 million, or $0.09 per diluted share. In the first quarter of 2005, AMD reported sales of $1.227 billion and a net loss of $17 million, or $0.04 per share. The operating loss was $7 million as compared to operating income of $72 million in the second quarter of 2004 and an operating loss of $46 million in the first quarter of 2005.
 
"Our microprocessor business delivered another record quarter driven by increased demand for AMD server and mobile processors from our largest global OEM customers," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Once again we continued to gain momentum with microprocessor sales growth increasing 38 percent compared to the second quarter of 2004. The solid overall demand was enhanced by our newer processor offerings. Strong Dual-Core AMD Opteron processor sales contributed to an 89 percent revenue increase in our server products from the prior quarter. This demonstrates the acceptance of the AMD64 platform by
 
enterprise customers. Likewise, the AMD Turion64 processor captured more than 60 design wins and drove record mobile sales in the thin-and-light mobile PC category."
 
"Memory Products Group sales increased slightly in the quarter, driven by record MirrorBit Flash memory sales and overall higher unit demand."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
Second quarter gross margin was 39 percent compared to 34 percent in the first quarter of 2005. The improvement was largely due to record Computation Products Group (CPG) gross margins.
 
Record CPG sales of $767 million increased 38 percent from the second quarter of 2004 and increased two percent from $750 million in the first quarter of 2005. CPG generated record operating income of $110 million in the second quarter, up from $92 million in the first quarter of 2005. CPG's second quarter sales growth was driven by record server and mobile processor sales, a six percent higher overall average selling price, and record sales to our largest global OEM customers. Geographically, sales were especially strong in China, North America and all of our high-growth markets.
 
Memory Products Group sales of $462 million decreased 31 percent from the second quarter of 2004 and increased three percent from $447 million in the first quarter or 2005. Memory Products Group incurred an operating loss of $90 million, as compared to an operating loss of $110 million in the first quarter of 2005. MirrorBit Flash memory sales accelerated to more than 20 percent of total Memory Products Group sales in the quarter, with increased wireless demand for second-generation, 110nm MirrorBit devices. Quarter-over-quarter, sales in Europe and the Americas increased and unit volume shipments were up twelve percent.
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
 
 
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PT today to discuss quarterly financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning the fiscal quarter ending September 25, 2005, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's current expectations. Risks that the company considers to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the third quarter of 2005; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product
 
bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that demand for computers, and, in turn, demand for the company's processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not continue to occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that OEMs will increasingly choose NAND-based Flash memory products over NOR-based Flash memory products for their applications; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction or implementation schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2004 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2005.
 
ABOUT AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces innovative microprocessors, Flash memory devices and low-power processor solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to delivering standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises and governments to individual consumers. For more information visit www.amd.com.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Turion, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of Spansion LLC. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other names used are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding


