FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20050413164027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 and Item 7.01. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On April 13, 2005, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter ended March 27, 2005 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
99.1    Press Release dated April 13, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported sales of $1.227 billion and an operating loss of $46 million for the quarter ended March 27, 2005. The first quarter net loss of $17 million amounted to $0.04 per share.
SUNNYVALE, CA  April 13, 2005 
 
First quarter sales decreased one percent compared to the first quarter of 2004 and decreased three percent from the fourth quarter of 2004. In the first quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.236 billion and net income of $45 million, or $0.12 per diluted share. In the fourth quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.264 billion and a net loss of $30 million, or $0.08 per share.
 
"Our microprocessor business delivered record sales in what is typically a seasonally down quarter, driven by increased sales across all product categories," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "We continued to gain momentum with year-over-year sales growth of 31 percent, highlighted by AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 processor sales, each of which more than doubled from a year ago.
 
"The NOR Flash memory market continued to experience industry-wide oversupply and strong pricing pressure. We experienced a rise in unit shipments, but our average selling price (ASP) declined significantly, resulting in weaker than expected sales."
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
First quarter operating loss was $46 million as compared to operating profit of $61 million in the first quarter of 2004 and $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. First quarter gross margin was 34 percent compared to 41 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004. This decrease was largely due to a weak Flash memory pricing environment.
 
Record Computation Products Group (CPG) sales of $750 million were up 31 percent from the first quarter of 2004 and increased three percent from $730 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. CPG generated record operating income of $92 million in the first quarter, up from $89 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. CPG's first quarter sales growth was driven by record server and mobile processor sales, and strong overall penetration in high-growth regions, particularly greater China. AMD64 processor sales grew a record 30 percent sequentially and represented 63 percent of CPG sales.
 
AMD's manufacturing conversion for processor products from 130 to 90 nanometers is ahead of schedule and yields are higher than planned. This higher unit capacity will continue to provide AMD the ability to support accelerating customer demand across product segments.
 
Memory Group sales of $447 million decreased 29 percent from the first quarter of 2004 and decreased 11 percent from $504 million in the prior quarter. The Memory Group incurred an operating loss of $110 million, as compared to an operating loss of $39 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. Unit volume shipments were up quarter over quarter. Spansion also commenced volume shipments of the industry-leading 256-megabit MirrorBit Flash memory device to three of the top 10 wireless phone manufacturers.
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE QUARTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
 
In the typically seasonally down second quarter, AMD expects processor sales to be flat or down slightly.
 
Because of Spansion's SEC Form S-1 filing today, AMD is not providing guidance for the Flash memory business.
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PT today to discuss quarterly financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the second quarter of 2005; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's processor business will prevent attainment of the company's current processor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's processors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not continue to occur as expected; that demand for the company's Flash memory products will be lower than currently expected and that the company will not be able to increase or maintain Flash memory market share; that Intel Corporation will negatively affect NOR Flash memory prices; that customer acceptance of MirrorBit technology will not continue to increase; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction or implementation schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; and that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2004.
 
ABOUT AMD
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) designs and produces innovative microprocessors, Flash memory devices and low-power processor solutions for the computer, communications and consumer electronics industries. AMD is dedicated to delivering standards-based, customer-focused solutions for technology users, ranging from enterprises and governments to individual consumers. For more information visit www.amd.com.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Turion, Alchemy and combinations thereof, Cool'n'Quiet and Au1200 are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of Spansion LLC. ENERGY STAR is a registered trademark of the U.S. Government. Other names used are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding


