FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20060127145032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On January 27, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") completed an underwritten public offering of 14,096,000 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-45346). The sale was underwritten pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated January 24, 2006, which is attached as Exhibit 1.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On January 27, 2006, the Company sent a notice of redemption to the holders of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2012, with a redemption date of February 26, 2006, for the redemption of 35% (or $210 million) of the aggregate principal amount of the Company's outstanding Senior Notes. Holders of the redeemed Senior Notes will receive 107.75% of the principal amount of the redeemed Senior Notes, plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. The Company expects to record a charge of approximately $20 million in connection with the redemption.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
January 24, 2006
 
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "") with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriter of the number of shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company ("") set forth above, and with respect to the grant by the Company to the Underwriter of the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of 2,114,400 additional shares of Common Stock to cover overallotments, if any. The aforesaid 14,096,000 shares of Common Stock (the "") to be purchased by the Underwriter and all or any part of the 2,114,400 shares of Common Stock subject to the option described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "") are hereinafter called, collectively, the "."
Company
Underwriter
Common Stock
Initial Securities
Option Securities
Securities
 
The Company understands that the Underwriter proposes to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Underwriter deems advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
 
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-45346), including the related preliminary prospectus, which registration statement was declared effective September 18, 2000 under the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). Such registration statement covers the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to Rule 430B is referred to as "." Each prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted the Rule 430B Information is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto at
Commission
1933 Act Regulations
1933 Act
Rule 430B
Rule 424(b)
Rule 430B Information
such time, exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included herein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "." The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriter for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("").
Registration Statement
Original Registration Statement
Prospectus
EDGAR
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by the 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "") which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by the 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
1934 Act
 
SECTION 1.
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a) . The Company represents and warrants to the Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(i) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof, and as of each Date of Delivery (if any) referred to in Section 2(b) hereof, and agrees with the Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
 
(i) . The Original Registration Statement was declared effective under the 1933 Act Regulations on September 18, 2000. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
 
At the respective times the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any amendments and
 
supplements thereto complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and, prior to the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued and at the Closing Time (and, if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), included or, prior to the Closing Time, will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto), complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations and each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriter for use in connection with this offering was identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
As of the Applicable Time, neither (x) the Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus(es) (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time (as defined below), the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below) and the information included on Schedule A hereto, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (y) any individual Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
General Disclosure Package
 
As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
 
"" means 4:15 pm (Eastern time) on January 23, 2006 or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Underwriter.
Applicable Time
 
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule C hereto.
Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not an Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
Statutory Prospectus
 
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies the Underwriter as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
 
The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Underwriter expressly for use therein.
 
(ii) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the ""), and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of the time the Prospectus was first used and the date and time of the first contract of sale of Securities in this offering and (c) at the Closing Time (and if any Option Securities are purchased, at the Date of Delivery), did not and prior to the Closing Time will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
1934 Act Regulations
 
(iii) . The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
Independent Accountants
 
(iv) . The financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein).
Financial Statements
GAAP
 
(v) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business affairs or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "") and (B) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
Material Adverse Effect
 
(vi) . The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Good Standing of the Company
 
(vii) . Each of the Company's subsidiaries has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and, except for AMD S.A., where five shares are held by directors in accordance with the laws of Switzerland, all outstanding capital stock is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, and is free and clear of any security interest, lien, encumbrance or claim except for all shares or interests of AMD Fab 36 LLC & Co KG, AMD Fab 36 Holding Gmbh, AMD Fab 36 Admin and AMD Fab 36 LLC which (along with their assets) are pledged to lenders in connection with the Euro 700 Million Term Loan Facility Agreement for AMD Fab 36 LLC & Co KG dated April 21, 2004.
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
 
(viii) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus and the capital stock of the Company conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus. The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Capitalization
 
(ix) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
 
(x) . The Securities have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to the Underwriter pursuant to this Agreement and, when issued and delivered by the Company pursuant to this Agreement against payment of the consideration set forth herein, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable; the Common Stock conforms to all statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus and such description conforms to the rights set forth in the instruments defining the same; the issuance of the Securities is not subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company; and, except as set forth in the Prospectus as of the date of the Prospectus, no options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of capital stock of or ownership interests in the Company are outstanding.
Authorization and Description of Securities
 
(xi) . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the delivery of the Securities by the Company, the compliance by the Company with all the provisions hereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective property is bound, (ii) violate or conflict with any applicable law or any rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court or any governmental body or agency having jurisdiction over the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective property, (iii) result in the imposition or creation of (or the obligation to create or impose) a lien, charge or encumbrance under any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective property is bound or (iv) result in the suspension, termination or revocation of any permit, license, consent, exemption, franchise, authorization or other approval (each an "") of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other impairment of the rights of the holder of any such Authorization.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
Authorization
 
(xii) . No significant unfair labor practice complaint is pending against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against any of them, before the National Labor Relations Board or any state or local labor relations board, and no significant grievance or arbitration proceeding arising out of or under any collective bargaining agreement is pending against the Company or any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against any of them; and no labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any subsidiary exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent.
Absence of Labor Dispute
 
(xiii) . There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary, which might result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
Absence of Proceedings
 
(xiv) . There are no contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
 
(xv) . The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses as now conducted or as proposed in the Prospectus to be conducted except where the failure to own or possess or otherwise be able to acquire such Intellectual Property would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in the Prospectus, (i) there is no material infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property; (ii) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries in or to any such Intellectual Property; (iii) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; (iv) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others; (v) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no U.S. patent or published U.S. patent application which contains claims that dominate or may dominate any Intellectual Property described in the Prospectus as being owned by or licensed to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or that interferes with the issued or pending claims or any such Intellectual Property; and (vi) there is no prior art of which the Company is aware that may render any U.S. patent held by the Company or any of its subsidiaries invalid or any U.S. patent application held by the Company or any of its subsidiaries unpatentable which has not been disclosed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, except for the foregoing items set forth in clauses (i) through (vi) of this subparagraph, which would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property
 
(xvi) . The Company has not taken, nor will the Company take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which would be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
 
(xvii) . No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such as have been already obtained or as may be required under the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations or state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
 
(xviii) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, consents, exemptions, franchises and other authorizations (collectively, "") issued by, and has made all filings with and notices to, the appropriate federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, including, without limitation, under any applicable Environmental Laws (as defined below), as are necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure so to possess would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except when the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and no event has occurred, nor have the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Governmental Licenses
 
(xix) . Each of the Company and its subsidiaries owns, licenses or leases all such properties as are necessary to the conduct of its operations as presently conducted.
Title to Property
 
(xx) . The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
1940 Act
 
(xxi) . Except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has violated any foreign, federal, state or local law or regulation relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("") or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder except for such violations which, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Laws
Environmental Laws
 
(xxii) . Except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has violated any provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, except for violations which, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
 
(xxiii) . Except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
violated any provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder except for such violations which, singly or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xxiv) . All material tax returns required to be filed by the Company and each of its subsidiaries in any jurisdiction have been filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all material taxes, including withholding taxes, penalties and interest, assessments, fees and other charges due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company or any of its subsidiaries have been paid, other than those being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been provided.
Tax Returns
 
(xxv) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses. Such insurance insures against such losses and risks as are adequate in accordance with customary industry practice to protect the Company and each of its subsidiaries and its businesses. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received notice from any insurer or agent of such insurer that substantial capital improvements or other expenditures will have to be made in order to continue such insurance. All such insurance is outstanding and duly in force on the date hereof and will be outstanding and duly in force on the Closing Date.
Insurance
 
(xxvi) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls
 
(xxvii) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
(xxviii) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
 
(xxix) . Except for the holders of the Company's 4.75% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022, there are no persons or entities with registration or other similar rights to require the Company to include any securities in any registration statement filed pursuant to a registration agreement or in any offering made pursuant to any such registration statement.
Registration Rights
 
(xxx) . The operations of the Company are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
 
(b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Underwriter or to counsel for the Underwriter shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to the Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
 
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to the Underwriter; Closing
 
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to the Underwriter, and the Underwriter agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price per share set forth in Schedule A, the number of Initial Securities set forth above.
Initial Securities
 
(b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Underwriter to purchase up to an additional 2,114,400 shares of Common Stock at the price per share set forth in Schedule A, less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities. The option hereby granted will expire 30 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time only for the purpose of covering overallotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon notice by the Underwriter to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the Underwriter is then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities, which date may not be February 6, 2006. Any such time and date of delivery (a "") shall be determined by the Underwriter, but shall not be later than seven full business days after delivery of the notice of exercise of said option, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time, as hereinafter defined.
Option Securities
Date of Delivery
 
(c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Initial Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriter and the Company, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof, or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriter and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "").
Payment
Closing Time
 
In addition, in the event that any or all of the Option Securities are purchased by the Underwriter, payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, such Option Securities shall be made at the above-mentioned offices, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriter and the Company, on each Date of Delivery as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriter and the Company.
 
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Underwriter of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by it.
 
(d) . Certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Underwriter may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be. The certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Underwriter in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be
Denominations; Registration
 
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with the Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
 
(a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will notify the Underwriter immediately (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
 
(b) . The Company will give the Underwriter notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Underwriter with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Underwriter or counsel for the Underwriter shall reasonably object in writing. The Company has given the Underwriter notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the Applicable Time; the Company will give the Underwriter notice of its intention to make any such filing from the Applicable Time to the Closing Time and will furnish the Underwriter copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Underwriter or counsel for the Underwriter shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
 
(c) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Underwriter and counsel for the Underwriter, without charge, signed copies of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Underwriter, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits). The copies of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriter will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
(d) . The Company has delivered to the Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as the Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to the Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as the Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriter will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
(e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. If at any time when a prospectus
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriter or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statements of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its reasonable efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will furnish to the Underwriter such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriter may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify the Underwriter and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
 
(f) . The Company will use its reasonable efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriter, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Underwriter may designate and to maintain such qualifications; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
(g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriter the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
 
(h) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "."
Use of Proceeds
Use of Proceeds
 
(i) . The Company will use its best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
 
(j) . During a period of 30 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Underwriter, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any share of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to the Securities to be sold hereunder or securities issued or sold pursuant to an equity incentive plan or employee stock purchase plan in existence on the date hereof or upon conversion of the Company's 4.75% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2022.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
 
(k) . The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
 
(l) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Underwriter, and the Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Underwriter is hereinafter referred to as a "" The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus.
 
SECTION 4. . (a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriter of this Agreement and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriter, including any stock or other transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities to the Underwriter, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel,
Payment of Expenses
Expenses
 
accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriter in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriter of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriter of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Securities and (ix) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Underwriter in accordance with the provisions of Section 5, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriter for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriter.
Termination of Agreement
 
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the Underwriter hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriter's Obligations
 
(a) . The Registration Statement has been declared effective and at Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriter. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
 
(b) . At Closing Time, the Underwriter shall have received the opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriter to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
(c) . At Closing Time, the Underwriter shall have received the opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Harry Wolin, General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriter to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of General Counsel of the Company
 
(d) . At Closing Time, the Underwriter shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriter
 
Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriter, with respect to the matters set forth in clauses (i), (ii), (v), (vi) (solely as to preemptive or other similar rights arising by operation of law or under the charter or by-laws of the Company), (viii) through (x), inclusive, (xii), (xiv) (solely as to the information in the Prospectus under "Description of Capital StockCommon Stock") and the penultimate paragraph of Exhibit A hereto. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Underwriter. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
 
(e) . At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the date of the most recent financial statements incorporated by reference into the Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Prospectus and the Underwriter shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the principal financial or principal accounting officer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof, if qualified as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect, are true and correct and in all other cases are true and correct in all material respects with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
 
(f) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Underwriter shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriter containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
 
(g) . At Closing Time, the Underwriter shall have received from Ernst & Young, LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
(h) . At Closing Time, the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
 
(i) . At the date of this Agreement, the Underwriter shall have received agreements substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule B hereto.
Lock-up Agreements
 
(j) . In the event that the Underwriter exercises its option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Date of Delivery and, at the relevant Date of Delivery, the Underwriter shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Securities
 
(i) . A certificate, dated such Date of Delivery, of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof remains true and correct as of such Date of Delivery.
Officers' Certificate
 
(ii) . The opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriter, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
(iii) . The favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriter, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(c) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriter
 
(iv) . A letter from Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriter and dated such Date of Delivery, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Underwriter pursuant to Section 5(g) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than five days prior to such Date of Delivery.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
(k) . At Closing Time and at each Date of Delivery, counsel for the Underwriter shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriter and counsel for the Underwriter.
Additional Documents
 
(l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Securities, on a Date of Delivery which is
Termination of Agreement
 
after the Closing Time, the obligations of the Underwriter to purchase the relevant Option Securities, may be terminated by the Underwriter by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Date of Delivery, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
 
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) under the 1933 Act (each, an ""), its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriter
Affiliate
 
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430A Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, as described in Section 6(a)(i) above; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
 
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Underwriter), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, as described in Section 6(a)(i) above, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
 
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
 
(b) . The Underwriter agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Underwriter expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any obligation to the indemnified parties other than the indemnification obligation provided in sections 6(a) and 6(b) above. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Underwriter, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution is sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
provided
however
 
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation
Contribution
 
provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriter on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriter, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
 
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriter and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and the Underwriter's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as the Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling the Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
 
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
 
(a) . The Underwriter may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto or the General Disclosure Package), any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings or business of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Underwriter, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
 
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
 
SECTION 10. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, from the commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure (as such terms are used in Sections 6011, 6111 and 6112 of the U.S. Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Tax Disclosure
 
SECTION 11. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriter shall be directed to it at:
Notices
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
Attention: General Counsel
 
with copies to:
 
Davis Polk & Wardwell
1600 El Camino Real
Menlo Park, California 94025
Facsimile: (650) 752-2116
Attention: Alan Denenberg
 
and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at:
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
One AMD Place
Sunnyvale, California 94088
Facsimile: (408) 732-6164
Attention: General Counsel
 
with copies to:
 
Latham & Watkins
505 Montgomery Street, Suite 2000
San Francisco, California 94111
Facsimile: (415) 395-8095
Attention: Tad J. Frese
 
SECTION 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriter, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction the Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) the Underwriter has not assumed and will not assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether the Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and the Underwriter has no obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriter and its respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company, and (e) the Underwriter has not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
SECTION 13. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriter, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
 
SECTION 14. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriter and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or
Parties
 
mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriter and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriter and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from the Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
 
SECTION 15. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
 
SECTION 16. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
 
SECTION 17. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 18. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriter and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The initial public offering price per share for the Securities, determined as provided in said Section 2, shall be $35.20.
 
2. The purchase price per share for the Securities to be paid by the Underwriter shall be $35.12, being an amount equal to the initial public offering price set forth above less $0.08 per share; provided that the purchase price per share for any Option Securities purchased upon the exercise of the overallotment option described in Section 2(b) shall be reduced by an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities.
 
3. The underwriter will receive a commission equivalent from investors in the amount of $0.05 per share for the Securities sold to investors.
 
 
 
Hector J. Ruiz
William T. Edwards
Thomas M. McCoy
Derrick R. Meyer
Henri Richard
Robert Rivet
Harry Wolin
William Michael Barnes
Bruce L. Claflin
H. Paulett Eberhart
David J. Edmondson
Robert B. Palmer
Leonard M. Silverman
Morton L. Topfer
 
 
 
None.
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
One AMD Place
P.O. Box 3453
Sunnyvale, CA 94088-3453
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the proposed issuance of 14,096,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the ""), pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on September 7, 2000 (File No. 333-45346), as amended (collectively, the "") and an underwriting agreement dated January 24, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and Merrill Lynch & Co. This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Act, and no opinion is expressed herein as to any matter pertaining to the contents of the Registration Statement or the prospectus supplement dated January 24, 2006 filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act (the ""), other than as to the validity of the Shares.
Company
Shares
Act
Commission
Registration Statement
Underwriting Agreement
Prospectus
 
As such counsel, we have examined such matters of fact and questions of law as we have considered appropriate for purposes of this letter. With your consent, we have relied upon the foregoing and upon certificates and other assurances of officers of the Company and others as to factual matters without having independently verified such factual matters.
 
We are opining herein only as to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and we express no opinion with respect to any other laws.
 
Subject to the foregoing, it is our opinion that, as of the date hereof, it is our opinion that, as of the date hereof the issuance and sale of the Shares have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company, and, when issued to and paid for by the Underwriter in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
This opinion is for your benefit in connection with the Registration Statement and may be relied upon by you and by persons entitled to rely upon it pursuant to the applicable provisions of federal securities laws. We consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated January 27, 2006 and to the reference to our firm in the Prospectus under the heading "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 


