FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20060118172521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
 
On January 18, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition as of and for the year ended and quarter ended December 25, 2005 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
 
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
 
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The Company has also presented non-GAAP pro forma financial information to exclude the results of operations of its Memory Products segment and Spansion Inc. (formerly Spansion LLC), its former majority-owned subsidiary which completed its initial public offering (IPO) on December 21, 2005, as well as the non-cash charge on disposition of equity interest in Spansion Inc. As a result of the IPO, the Company's financial results of operations include Spansion's results only through December 20, 2005. Moreover, the Company's ownership in Spansion was reduced from 60 percent to approximately 37.9 percent and therefore the Company will no longer consolidate Spansion's results of operations in the Company's financial results, but instead will utilize the equity method of accounting to reflect its share of Spansion's net income. Because the comparison of fourth quarter consolidated financial results to previous periods does not correlate directly, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial data that exclude the results of operations of Spansion Inc. and the Memory Products segment because the Company believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting the Company's current and historical results in a form that will be more consistent with the presentation of future operating results. The Company has provided reconciliation within the press release to reconcile these non-GAAP financial data to the most directly comparable GAAP financials.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
99.1    Press Release dated January 18, 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported earnings for the quarter ended December 25, 2005. As a result of Spansion Inc.'s initial public offering (IPO), AMD's financial results of operations include Spansion's financial results of operations as a consolidated subsidiary only through December 20, 2005. Because comparison of fourth quarter consolidated financial results to previous periods do not correlate directly, AMD has provided non-GAAP financial statements that exclude Spansion and the Memory Segment results of operations. Management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting the company's current and historical results in a form that will be more consistent with the presentation of future operating results.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Jan. 18, 2006 
 
AMD reported record fourth quarter sales of $1.84 billion, operating income of $206 million, and net income of $96 million, or $0.21 per share. These results include a non-cash charge of $110 million, or $0.24 per share, associated with the reduction of AMD's ownership in Spansion to 37.9 percent as a result of Spansion's IPO. Excluding this charge, AMD achieved net income of $205 million, or $0.45 per share.
 
 
Fourth quarter sales of $1.84 billion, which do not include Spansion's sales from the last five days of the fourth quarter due to Spansion's IPO, increased 45 percent from the fourth quarter of 2004 and 21 percent from the third quarter of 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2004, AMD reported sales of $1.26 billion, operating income of $20 million, and net a loss of $30 million, or $0.08 per share. In the third quarter of 2005, AMD reported sales of $1.52 billion, operating income of $79 million, and net income of $76 million, or $0.18 per share.
 
 
 
AMD, excluding the results of the Memory Products Group segment, had fourth quarter sales of $1.35 billion, an increase of 78 percent from the fourth quarter of 2004 and 34 percent from the third quarter of 2005. Comparable sales in the fourth quarter of 2004 were $760 million, resulting in operating income of $59 million. Comparable sales in the third quarter of 2005 were $1.01 billion, resulting in operating income of $129 million.
 
For the year ended December 25, 2005, AMD achieved record sales of $5.85 billion, a 17 percent increase from 2004. Fiscal year 2005 net income was $165 million, or $0.40 per share. The annual results include a non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of $110 million, or $0.25 per share, associated with the reduction of AMD's ownership in Spansion to 37.9 percent as a result of Spansion's IPO. AMD
 
reported sales in 2004 of $5.00 billion and a net income of $91 million, or $0.25 per share.
 
AMD, excluding the results of the Memory Products Group segment, had sales of $3.94 billion for the year ended December 25, 2005, an increase of 48 percent from 2004, and operating income of $543 million for 2005. Comparable sales in 2004 were $2.66 billion, resulting in operating income of $187 million.
 
"AMD's growth rate increased in the fourth quarter resulting in continued market share gains across server, desktop and mobile product lines," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "In addition to solid execution against our product and technology strategies, we made significant strides in the quarter to improve our balance sheet by significantly reducing our debt and increasing our cash and short-term investment balance to $1.8 billion."
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
Record Computation Product Group (CPG) sales of $1.31 billion increased 79 percent from $730 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 and increased 35 percent from $969 million in the third quarter of 2005. CPG generated record operating income of $287 million in the fourth quarter, up from $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 and $149 million in the third quarter of 2005.
 
Compared to the third quarter of 2005, CPG's fourth quarter sales growth was driven by an increase in both units and average selling price (ASP), increased demand from AMD's largest global customers, and an acceleration of AMD's commercial server and client businesses. Server, mobile and desktop processor sales each grew significantly compared to the third quarter of 2005. Mobile processor sales growth was driven by increased shipments of AMD Turion 64 processors. Server and desktop sales growth was driven in particular by increased customer adoption of Dual-Core AMD processors. Geographically, processor sales were especially strong in North America, Europe and Greater China.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2005, Memory Products Group (MPG) sales through December 20, 2005, of $487 million decreased 3 percent from $504 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 and 6 percent from $516 million in the third quarter of 2005. MPG had an operating loss of $62 million compared to an operating loss of $50 million in the third quarter of 2005.
 
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
 
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. From December 21, 2005, Spansion's financial results will no longer be consolidated as part of AMD's financial results. Instead, AMD will utilize the equity method of accounting to reflect its share of Spansion's net income. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
 
AMD expects first quarter sales to be flat to slightly down seasonally from the fourth quarter of 2005. If achieved, this would approach a 70 percent increase from comparable sales in the first quarter of 2005.
 
AMD TELECONFERENCE
 
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PT today to discuss fourth quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com or www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
ABOUT AMD
 
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative microprocessor solutions for computing, communications and consumer electronics markets. Founded in 1969, AMD is dedicated to delivering superior computing solutions based on customer needs that empower users worldwide. For more information visit .
www.amd.com
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning the first quarter of 2006, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the first quarter of 2006; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's microprocessor business will prevent attainment of the company's current microprocessor sales plans; that demand for personal computers and, in turn, demand for the company's microprocessors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not occur as expected; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; that solutions providers will not timely provide the infrastructure, including operating systems and applications, to support the company's AMD64 technology; and that unfavorable results of operation of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on
 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2004, and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2005.
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Sempron, AMD Turion 64 and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion and MirrorBit are trademarks of Spansion LLC. Microsoft is a registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other jurisdictions. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO EBITDA
 
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF NON GAAP PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS TO GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
 
Notes to the Reconciliation Adjustments:
 
 


