FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20061019152043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 13, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the ""), the Company's indirect wholly-owned subsidiary AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG ("), the Company's direct wholly-owned subsidiary AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the other parties thereto executed an Amendment Agreement dated as of October 10, 2006 (the "") which amended the terms of the Company's EUR 700 million Term Loan Facility Agreement among AMD Fab 36 KG, as borrower, and a consortium of banks led by Dresdner Bank AG, as lenders, dated April 21, 2004 (the "") and related agreements, including the Guarantee Agreement among the Company, as Guarantor, AMD Fab 36 KG, Dresdner Bank AG and Dresdner Bank AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg (the "").
Company
AMD Fab 36 KG"
Amendment
Facility Agreement
Guarantee Agreement
Facility Agreement
Under the amended and restated Facility Agreement, AMD Fab 36 KG has the option to borrow in U.S. Dollars as long as the Company's group consolidated cash (which is defined as the sum of the Company's and its subsidiaries' unsecured cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments less the aggregate amount outstanding under any revolving credit facility) is at least $500 million. Moreover, to protect the lenders from currency risks, if group consolidated cash is below one billion or the Company's credit rating drops below B3 by Moody's and B- by Standard & Poor's, AMD Fab 36 KG will be required to maintain a cash reserve account with deposits equal to 5 percent of the amount of U.S. Dollar loans outstanding under the Facility Agreement and to make balancing payments into this account equal to the difference between (x) the total amount of U.S. Dollar loans outstanding under the Facility Agreement and (y) the U.S Dollar equivalent of 700 million euros (as reduced by repayments, prepayments, cancellations, and any outstanding loans denominated in euros under the Facility Agreement).
The amended and restated Facility Agreement also amends certain covenants applicable to AMD Fab 36 KG. For example, for as long as group consolidated cash is at least one billion, the Company's credit rating is at least B3 by Moody's and B- by Standard & Poor's, and no event of default has occurred, AMD Fab 36 KG is no longer required to maintain minimum cash balances. Moreover, the only financial covenant that AMD Fab 36 KG is now required to comply with is the loan to fixed asset value covenant. Specifically, the loan to fixed asset value as at the end of any relevant period specified in Column A below can not exceed the percentage set out opposite such relevant period in Column B below:
 
As of July 2, 2006, AMD Fab 36 KG was in compliance with this covenant. AMD Fab 36 KG's information undertakings were also simplified.
Guarantee Agreement
Under the amended and restated Guarantee Agreement, the financial covenants applicable to the Company were revised. The financial covenant relating to adjusted tangible net worth was amended such that the definition of "adjusted net earnings from operations" now excludes compensation expense related to awards of equity instruments to employees as well as any amounts reflected in the Company's financial statements under the line item "Equity in net income (loss) of Spansion Inc." The adjusted tangible net worth covenant levels were also amended to reflect the fact that Spansion LLC is no longer a majority owned subsidiary of the Company. Accordingly, from and after the first date, if any, on which group consolidated cash is less than:
 
The Company will be required to maintain adjusted tangible net worth, determined as of the last day of each preceding fiscal quarter, of not less than the amounts set forth below:
 
In addition, the levels required for EBITDA were reduced such that from and after the first date, if any, on which group consolidated cash is less than:
 
The Company will be required to maintain EBITDA as of the last day of each preceding fiscal period set forth below in an amount not less than the amount set forth below opposite the date of such preceding fiscal period:
 
 
As of July 2, 2006, group consolidated cash was greater than $500 million, and therefore the Company was not required to comply with the preceding financial covenants.
Copies of the Amendment, the Facility Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement are attached as Exhibit 10.1 and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing descriptions of the Amendment, the Facility Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of these agreements.
Dresdner Bank AG, its affiliates and certain other lenders under the Facility Agreement are also lenders under a EUR 120 million credit facility for Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH & Co. KG (the "") and a EUR 75 million term loan facility for Maskhouse Building Administration GmbH & Co. KG Dresden Branch (the ""). The AMTC and BAC are joint ventures in which the Company owns a one-third equity interest. Dresdner Bank AG also acts as a security agent under these facilities, Dresdner Bank AG Niederlassung Luxembourg acts as the facility agent and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein acted as the mandated lead arranger.
AMTC
BAC
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On October 13, 2006, AMD Fab 36 KG borrowed $645 million under the Facility Agreement described above. AMD Fab 36 KG selected an interest period of three months for this loan. The rate of interest on this loan for the selected interest period is 7.1259 percent. Accordingly, on January 16, 2007, AMD Fab 36 KG will be required to make an interest payment equal of approximately $12 million. This loan is repayable on each repayment date set forth below by the percentage set forth below.
 
The material terms of the Facility Agreement and the related agreements are described in more detail in the Company's filings with the Securities Exchange Commission under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2005 and Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2005 and are supplemented by the description of the agreements set forth in Item 1.01 above.
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                         (d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
***CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED
Convenience Translation
 
is dated 10 October 2006 and made between:
THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS
The Borrower, the Mandated Lead Arrangers, the Lenders, the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and the Reporting Agent are parties to a EUR 700,000,000 Term Loan Facility Agreement dated 21 April 2004 (the ""), and have agreed amongst themselves and with the Guarantor to make amendments to the Facility Agreement, and certain other agreements referred to in and defined as "Finance Documents" in the Facility Agreement, by way of this Amendment Agreement.
Facility Agreement
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agreement shall be amended and restated as set out in hereto (provided that all Schedules to the Facility Agreement dated 21 April 2004  or parts thereof - which are not appended to the restated text set out in shall remain unchanged, except that all references therein to Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A. shall be references to Dresdner Bank, AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg).
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
 
The Guarantee Agreement shall be amended and restated as set out in hereto.
Schedule 3
 
In the definition of "Affiliate" in Section 1 (a) of the License Agreement, ", provided that FASL shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of AMD Inc. for purposes of this Agreement" shall be deleted.
 
The Agreement entitled "Security Transfer of Fixed Assets" () dated 20 April 2004 and referred to in the Facility Agreement as "Security Assignment" () between the Borrower and the Security Agent is hereby amended as set out in hereto.
Sicherungsbereignung Anlagevermgen
Sicherungsbereignung
Schedule 4
 
This Amendment Agreement shall come into effect upon confirmation in writing by the Facility Agent that the following documents and other evidence have been delivered to the Facility Agent in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABN AMRO BANK N.V., NIEDERLASSUNG DEUTSCHLAND
ALLIED IRISH BANK PLC
BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK
BHF-BANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
COMMERZBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
DEUTSCHE BANK AG, LONDON
DEUTSCHE BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
DRESDNER BANK AG in BERLIN
DZ BANK AG
HVB BANQUE LUXEMBOURG SOCIETE ANONYME
IKB INTERNATIONAL S.A.
KBC BANK DEUTSCHLAND AG
KFW
LANDESBANK BADEN-WRTTEMBERG
LANDESBANK HESSEN-THRINGEN GIROZENTRALE
LANDESBANK RHEINLAND-PFALZ
LANDESBANK SACHSEN GIROZENTRALE
NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES, ZWEIGNIEDERLASSUNG DEUTSCHLAND
NRW BANK
 
Convenience Translation
 
 
 
 
 
 
is made between:
THIS AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
In this Agreement:
"" means the following agreements providing for first ranking pledges over:
Account Pledges
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
"" means the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and/or the Reporting Agent, as the context requires.
Agent
 
"" means a German limited liability company () with its business address at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany, registered at the commercial register () of the local court () in Dresden under HRB 22350.
AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
Handelsregister
Amtsgericht
"" means a German limited liability company () with its business address at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany, registered at the commercial register () of the local court () in Dresden under HRB 21270.
AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
Handelsregister
Amtsgericht
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the claims of AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH under the Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement.
AMD Fab 36 Holding's Assignment of Receivables
"" means a Delaware limited liability company with its business address at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, United States, registered with the State of Delaware on 18 July 2003 and having its registered business address at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 19801 Delaware, United States, of which the organizational identification number in the State of Delaware assigned by the Division of Corporations, as of the date hereof, is 3683217.
AMD Fab 36 LLC
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of rights under the Purchase Agreements over all the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower or in the Participations held by Limited Partners who are not members of the Group.
Assignment of the AMD Call Options
Gesellschaftsanteile
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all of the Borrower's claims under any insurance policies (with the exception of personal liability insurances and contractors' all risks insurances until completion of the building phase) it has taken out in relation to the Project.
Assignment of Insurance Claims
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all the Material Contracts governed by German law entered into by the Borrower (but excluding the Partnership Agreement).
Assignment of Material German Contracts
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of claims and contractual rights under all the Material Contracts governed by the law of a state of the United States of America entered into by the Borrower.
Assignment of Material US Contracts
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of warranty claims (including any underlying Security) under the warranty provided by the Project Engineer.
Assignment of Warranties
"" means the following assignment agreements providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all the claims against the Borrower of:
Assignments of Claims
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Borrower's Assignment of Receivables and AMD Fab 36 Holding's Assignment of Receivables, and "" shall mean any of them.
Assignments of Receivables
Assignment of Receivables
"" means Ernst & Young or another international auditing firm of similar repute and standing.
Auditors
"" means an authorisation, consent, approval, resolution, licence, exemption, filing or registration.
Authorisation
"" means the period from and including the Signing Date to and including 28 September 2007.
Availability Period
"" means a Lender's Commitment minus:
Available Commitment
 
 
"" means the aggregate for the time being of each Lender's Available Commitment.
Available Facility
"" means EUR.
Base Currency
"" means in relation to a Loan, the amount specified in the Utilisation Request delivered by the Borrower for that Utilisation (or, if the amount requested is denominated in USD, the amount converted into the Base Currency at the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date which is four (4) Business Days before the Utilisation Date or, if later, the date the Facility Agent receives the Utilisation Request), as adjusted to reflect any repayment, prepayment, consolidation or division of such Loan.
Base Currency Amount
"" means:
Base Financial Statements
 
 
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the Borrower's claims under the Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement.
Borrower's Assignment of Receivables
"" means the amount (if any) by which:
Break Costs
 
 
of the current Interest Period in respect of that Loan or Unpaid Sum, had the principal amount or Unpaid Sum received been paid on the last day of that Interest Period,
exceeds:
 
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, Dresden, London, Luxembourg, and
Business Day
 
 
"" means the financial model dated 4 November 2003 for the period beginning on 1 January 2003 and ending on 31 December 2012, including profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flow projections relating to the Project, in the agreed form set out in Schedule 7 (), together with a favourable opinion of Arthur D. Little dated 4 November 2003.
Business Plan
The Business Plan
"" means an agreement providing for call options in favour of the Security Agent in respect of the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower or in the Participations held by the Limited Partners who are not members of the Group and the Second General Partner.
Call Option
Gesellschaftsanteile
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in paragraph (a) of Clause 19.1 (s).
Cash
Financial Definition
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in paragraph (a) of Clause 19.1 (s).
Cash Equivalents
Financial Definition
"" means an interest-bearing escrow account maintained by the Borrower with the Security Agent into which amounts are to be paid pursuant to Clause 20.35 () in the currency and in the amounts set out therein which are to be utilized exclusively for the purpose described therein.
Cash Reserve Account
Balancing Payments to and from Cash Reserve Account
"" means an agreement providing for a first ranking pledge over the Cash Reserve Account.
Cash Reserve Account Pledge
"" means a Cash shortfall of the Borrower (whether in respect of operating or non-operating costs), including without limitation a Cash shortfall from cost overruns from capital expenditures or arising from reclamations of public allowances or grants () by the Federal/State Guarantor.
Cash Shortfall
Investitionszulagen / Investitionszuschsse
 
"" means the direct or indirect acquisition by any person (as such term is used in Section 13 (d) and Section 14 (d) (2) of the Exchange Act) or related persons constituting a group (as such term is used in Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), of:
Change of Control
 
 
"" means any assets of the Borrower that are secured in favour of the Security Agent pursuant to the Security Documents or any of them.
Charged Assets
"" means the date on which all of the initial conditions precedent set forth in Part I () of Schedule 2 () are satisfied, or waived, in accordance with Clause 4.1 ().
Closing
Initial Conditions Precedent
Conditions Precedent
Initial Conditions Precedent
"" means:
Commitment
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement.
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 6 ().
Compliance Certificate
Form of Compliance Certificate
"" means a confidentiality undertaking substantially in a recommended form of the LMA as set out in Schedule 8 () or in any other form agreed between the Borrower and the Facility Agent.
Confidentiality Undertaking
LMA Form of Confidentiality Undertaking
"" means the agreement () dated 20 November 2003 entered into between Free State of Saxony, the Guarantor and Fab 36 Beteiligungs GmbH.
Cooperation Agreement
Kooperationsvertrag
"" means the following agreements:
Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement
 
 
"" means any corporate credit rating/corporate family rating assigned to the Guarantor by Standard & Poor's or Moody's, respectively.
Credit Rating
 
 
"" means any radioactive emissions and any natural or artificial substance (in whatever form) the generation, transportation, storage, treatment, use or disposal of which (whether alone or in combination with any other substance) gives rise to a risk of causing substantial harm to man or any other living organism or damaging the Environment or public health or welfare, including (without limitation) any controlled, special, hazardous, toxic, radioactive or dangerous waste.
Dangerous Substance
"" means any issue after the Signing Date of public or privately placed debt securities of the Borrower.
Debt Issue
"" means an Event of Default or any event or circumstance specified in Clause 21 () that would (with the expiry of a grace period, the giving of notice, the making of any determination under the Finance Documents or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.
Default
Events of Default
"" means the agreement () dated 20 November 2003 made between the Borrower and the Project Engineer pertaining to the design and construction of the Project.
EPC Contract
Generalbernehmervertrag
"" means the media of air, water and land (wherever occurring) and in relation to the media of air and water includes, without limitation, the air and water within buildings and the air and water within other natural or man-made structures above or below ground and any water contained in any underground strata.
Environment
"" means any claim by any person:
Environmental Claim
 
 
"" means each of the following and their consequences:
Environmental Contamination
 
 
 
"" means all laws, regulations, directives, codes of practice, circulars, guidance notices, instructions and the like issued by a governmental authority and having legal effect concerning the protection of human health, the Environment, the conditions of the work place or the generation, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of Dangerous Substances.
Environmental Law
 
"" means any permit, licence, authorisation, consent or other approval required by any Environmental Law.
Environmental Licence
"" means any equipment and tools (including any information technology software or hardware which is embedded or installed in, or essential for the working of, that equipment) to be owned by the Borrower and to be installed on the Site for the development and production of microprocessors on silicon wafers and which is required by the Borrower to implement the Project in accordance with the Business Plan.
Equipment
"" means any issue of partnership interests or shares by the Borrower or any issue or grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, partnership interests or shares in the Borrower.
Equity Issue
"" means an interest-bearing escrow account (with two sub-accounts denominated in EUR and USD, respectively) to be maintained by the Borrower with the Security Agent (alternatively Cash Equivalents may be invested into a non-interest-bearing deposit account with the Security Agent), funded by Utilisations and utilised solely for the purpose set out in Clause 3 () and Clause 7.4 ().
Escrow Account
Purpose
Mandatory Prepayment from the Escrow Account
"" means the unconditional approval of the European Union in respect of the Federal/State Guarantee and in connection with any public allowances or grants () provided to the Borrower pursuant to a Subsidy Agreement.
EU Notification Approval
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means, in relation to any Loan:
EURIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for the offering of deposits in Euro for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the relevant Loan.
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the amounts of the outstanding Loans denominated in EUR.
EUR Outstandings
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Clause 21.1 ().
Event of Default
Acceleration
"" means the amount, from time to time, of capital in the Borrower contributed by the Guarantor or its Affiliates in excess of the amount required to be contributed by the Guarantor prior to first Utilisation pursuant to Part II () of ().
Excess Contributed Capital Amount
Conditions Precedent to first Utilisation
Schedule 2
Conditions Precedent
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means the Financial Indebtedness or other indebtedness of the Borrower outstanding prior to the date of initial Utilisation, but does not include Financial Indebtedness arising under the Revolving Credit Agreement or a Subordinated Loan Agreement.
Existing Indebtedness
 
"" means the Security granted or existing over the assets of the Obligors that is existing prior to the date of initial Utilisation.
Existing Security
"" means a date up to three (3) years after the Termination Date proposed by the Borrower and approved by each Lender and the Federal/State Guarantors as the date by which all Loans must be repaid following an extension of the Termination Date for the Loans pursuant to Clause 6.3 () but not later than the date which is the tenth (10
Extended Termination Date
Extension of Termination Date
th
) anniversary of the Signing Date or, if that is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day.
"" means the term loan facility made available under this Agreement as described in Clause 2 ().
Facility
The Facility
"" means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency with the Base Currency in the European foreign exchange market at or about 12.00 noon on a particular day.
Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange
"" means the higher of (i) seven hundred million (700,000,000) EUR and (ii) the amount of the Outstandings.
Facility Amount
"" means the office or offices notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent in writing on or before the date it becomes a Lender (or, following that date, by not less than five (5) Business Days' written notice) as the office or offices through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Facility Office
"" means the guarantees granted by the Federal/State Guarantors for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agents (after realisation of all Transaction Security, subject however to a limited right of advance appropriation in favour of the Finance Parties in relation to the Security constituted by the Cash Reserve Account Pledge) in respect of eighty (80) . of all losses (except certain currency-related losses) sustained by the Lenders and the Agents in respect of the Finance Documents in accordance with the terms set out in the Federal/State Guarantors Decision.
Federal/State Guarantee
per cent
"" means:
Federal/State Guarantors
 
 
"" means the decision of the Federal/State Guarantors and of PwC Deutsche Revision Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft ("") based on the inter-ministerial committee meetings () dated 6/17 November 2003 and based on the letters of PwC in connection therewith dated 17 March 2004, 7 April 2004 and 8 April 2004 (), as set out in Schedule 12 (), as further amended by the letters of PwC dated 3 and 20 January 2005, 20 and 22 December 2005 and 6 February 2006.
Federal/State Guarantors Decision
PWC
interministerielle Sitzungen
Brgschaftsentscheidung
Federal/State Guarantors Decision
"" means the letter dated 28 November 2003 made between the Mandated Lead Arrangers, the Borrower and the Guarantor and the letter dated 16 April 2004 made between the Facility Agent and the Borrower setting out any of the fees referred to in Clause 11 () and "" means any of them.
Fee Letters
Fees
Fee Letter
 
"" means this Agreement, any Fee Letter, any Security Document and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower and "" means any of them.
Finance Documents
Finance Document
"" means the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, the Reporting Agent, the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Lenders and "" means any of them.
Finance Parties
Finance Party
"" means any indebtedness for or in respect of:
Financial Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means each of those periods of approximately thirteen weeks ending on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December in each financial year.
Fiscal Quarter
"" means AMD Fab 36 LLC or, upon substitution of the former by AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH as general partner of the Borrower, the latter.
General Partner
"" means generally accepted accounting principles generally used by the accounting profession and in effect in Germany from time to time ().
German GAAP
Grundstze ordnungsmssiger Buchfhrung
 
"" means:
German Qualifying Lender
 
 
 
 
but only if the Lender described in this paragraph (a) (and further, (A) in the case of a partnership, each member of the partnership, and (B) in the case of a company which carries on a trade or business in Germany through a branch or agency, the branch or agency) is entitled to receive any and all payments under the Finance Documents (subject to completion of any procedural formalities) without a Tax Deduction; or
 
"" means a double taxation agreement with Germany which makes provision for full exemption of tax imposed by Germany on interest.
German Treaty
"" means a Lender which:
German Treaty Lender
 
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction to which a German Treaty applies.
German Treaty State
"" means the Federal Republic of Germany.
Germany
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all existing and future claims of the Borrower for goods and services provided, or based on other legal grounds, that it holds against all of its debtors with the exception of such claims which have been assigned under the other Security Documents.
Global Assignment of Receivables
"" means the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries from time to time and "" shall be construed accordingly.
Group
member of the Group
"" means for any fiscal month of the Guarantor the amount of all cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of the Guarantor and of all of its
Group Consolidated Cash
 
Subsidiaries (other than amounts which are "restricted cash" within the meaning of US GAAP, including cash and cash equivalents which are the subject of Security in favour of any party (other than Transaction Security); this exclusion shall however not apply to Security in favour of any relevant account bank constituted by (i) application of standard terms and conditions of financial institutions, (ii) other standard and customary terms and conditions or (iii) operation of law, in each case in respect of accounts which are not subject to any requirement to maintain a minimum balance on such accounts), calculated employing the same method applied in calculating the annual audited and quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, less the aggregate amount of all outstandings under any third-party revolving credit facility agreement (or third party term loan agreement for borrowed money with an original maturity of up to one (1) year) of the Guarantor and any member of the Group.
"" means a guarantee agreement of even date herewith containing the irrevocable and unconditional guarantee granted by the Guarantor for the benefit of each Finance Party in respect of the punctual performance by the Borrower of all its payment obligations under the Finance Documents (up to the Facility Amount and all interest and other amounts payable under the Finance Documents to which the Borrower is a party), including an indemnity in relation to repayment claims made in connection with any public allowances or grants ().
Guarantee Agreement
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Guarantor
"" means, in relation to a company or corporation, any other company or corporation in respect of which it is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
"" means the information memorandum dated 10 February 2004 concerning the Borrower and certain members of the Group, prepared by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein using information provided by the Borrower and the Guarantor in relation to the Project, agreed between the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Borrower, approved by the Borrower and distributed by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein on behalf of the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Borrower prior to the Signing Date to the Original Lenders.
Information Memorandum
"" means [***] .
Initial Margin
per cent. per annum
"" means Willis Limited, Aon Risk Services Inc. of Northern California Insurance Services or any person who replaces them as Insurance Adviser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Insurance Adviser
"" means the total cash proceeds of any insurance claim intended to compensate for damage to any asset of the Borrower (excluding proceeds received in respect of insurance claims for (i) interruption of business or (ii) loss of inventory) received by it in EUR (or if not received in EUR, it's equivalent in EUR based on the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date of receipt), after deducting:
Insurance Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the report referred to in paragraph (c) of the definition of "".
Insurance Report
Report
"" means any and all rights and interests existing now or in the future in any part of the world in or relating to registered and unregistered trade marks and service marks, domain names, patents, registered designs, utility models, trade names, business names, registered or unregistered copyrights in published works, inventions registered or unregistered, data base rights, know-how, any other intellectual property rights and any applications for any of the foregoing and any goodwill therein.
Intellectual Property
"" means any rights of an Obligor to Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property Rights
"" means, in relation to a Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause 9 () and, in relation to an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause 8.6 ().
Interest Period
Interest Periods
Default Interest and Penalty
"" means any joint venture entity, whether a company, unincorporated firm, undertaking, association, joint venture or partnership or any other entity.
Joint Venture
"" means all documents to be executed by the Borrower required for the creation of a first ranking land charge in chapter III over all real property of the Borrower located at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden, partial area of approximately 199,000 square meters of the parcel () 121/5 in the communal district Wilschdorf, currently file 851 of the land register at the land registry Dresden for Wilschdorf and the security purpose agreement () in relation to such land charge.
Land Charge
Flurstck
Zweckbestimmungserklrung
"" means:
Lender
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means, in relation to any Loan:
LIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Date for the offering of deposits in Dollar for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the Relevant Loan.
"" means the perpetual licence agreement dated on or about the date hereof made amongst the Borrower, the Guarantor and AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and listed in Schedule 13 ().
Licence Agreement
Project Documents
"" means:
Limited Partners
 
 
 
 
"" means the Loan Market Association.
LMA
"" means a loan made or to be made by way of a cash advance under the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Loan
"" means:
Majority Lenders
 
 
"" means each management plan delivered by the Borrower to the Facility Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of Clause 18.1 ().
Management Plan
Financial Statements
"" means the agreement dated 31 October 2003 made amongst the Borrower, the Guarantor, AMD Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and listed in Schedule 13 ().
Management Service Agreement
Project Documents
"" means the percentage rate calculated by the Facility Agent in accordance with Schedule 4 ().
Mandatory Cost
per annum
Mandatory Cost Formula
"" means the percentage rate determined in accordance with Clause 8.2 () to Clause 8.4 ().
Margin
per annum
Margin Ratchets
No Margin Ratchets in Events of Default
 
"" means a material adverse effect on:
Material Adverse Effect
 
 
 
"" means the documents listed in Schedule 16 () as at the date of this Agreement, and any other documents designated as such by the Majority Lenders (acting through the Facility Agent) and the Borrower, and "" means any of them.
Material Contracts
The Material Contracts
Material Contract
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Clause 20.18 ().
Minimum Cash
Minimum Cash Balances
"" means, in respect of a Lender, any Mandatory Cost, including the cost (if any) of its complying with any reserve asset, liquidity or other regulatory requirements affecting it, expressed as a percentage rate .
Minimum Reserve Cost
per annum
"" means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month, except that:
Month
 
 
 
The above rules (a) to (c) will only apply to the last Month of any period.
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means, in relation to:
Net Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the annual profits, net of Tax paid as permitted by paragraph (a) of the definition of "", of the Limited Partners who are not members of the Group on their partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower or in the Participations.
Net Profits
Permitted Distributions
Gesellschaftsanteile
"" means the Borrower or the Guarantor.
Obligor
"" means any of the financial institutions listed in Schedule 1 ().
Original Lender
The Original Lenders
"" means, at any time, the sum of the EUR Outstandings and, converted for that purpose into EUR at the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange at the relevant time, the USD Outstandings (which amounts will also include, without double-counting, any sums deposited into the Escrow Account).
Outstandings
"" means any member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the EUR as its lawful currency in accordance with legislation of the European Union relating to European Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
"" means each of the interests of the silent partners in the silent participation () between the Borrower and the Limited Partners who are not members of the Group.
Participation
stille Gesellschaft
"" means the agreement () dated on or about the date hereof made between the Borrower and Limited Partners who are not members of the Group establishing the Participation.
Participation Agreement
Vertrag ber die Errichtung einer stillen Gesellschaft
"" means the partnership agreement () of the Borrower dated on or about the date hereof.
Partnership Agreement
Kommanditgesellschaftsvertrag
"" means the agreements providing for first ranking pledges over the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower granted by:
Partnership Interest Pledges
Gesellschaftsanteile
 
 
 
 
relating to all present and future partnership interests held by such partners.
"" means a party to this Agreement and includes its successors in title, permitted assigns and permitted transferees.
Party
"" means, in relation to the Borrower, the development, implementation and operation of the Project, together with any activity which is ancillary or incidental to any of the above.
Permitted Business
"" means:
Permitted Disposal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Distributions
 
 
 
and is continuing (unless otherwise determined by the Majority Lenders), (A) distributions by the Borrower in amounts necessary to permit the Limited Partners, or any Holding Company of the Limited Partners on their behalf, to pay when due
 
and payable any amount of German income taxes required to be paid by the Limited Partners on their income on the annual profits of the partnership as partners of the Borrower and on the annual profits from the Participations and (B) provided that the Credit Rating at the date of such distribution is B3 or better by Moody's and B- or better by Standard & Poor's, distributions (by way of dividends, repurchase, redemption or otherwise) by the Borrower to AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH or any Holding Company or Affiliate thereof on its behalf, in amounts not exceeding, in the aggregate, the Excess Contributed Capital Amount other than Excess Contributed Capital Amounts which have been made available pursuant to paragraph (b) (iv) below;
 
 
 
 
in an amount not exceeding thirteen (13) . of their respective capital shares () or capital contributions made in respect of the Participations, respectively; , the Credit Rating is Caa1 or better by Moody's and CCC+ or better by Standard & Poor's;
per cent
per annum
Pflichtkapital
provided that
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Outstandings and Total Commitments under this Agreement are EUR250,000,000 or less; or
provided that
 
"" means any Financial Indebtedness:
Permitted Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Loans and Guarantees
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Security
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a financial institution with a rating of not lower than A3 (Moody's Investor Services, Inc.) or A- (Standard & Poor's Corporation).
Prime Bank
"" means the construction and operation of a 300mm silicon wafer microprocessor fabrication facility located at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden to be owned and operated by the Borrower with a planned total capital expenditure (including, without limitation, construction costs) by 31 December 2007 of approximately two billion, four hundred million (2,400,000,000) EUR.
Project
"" means the documents listed in Schedule 13 () as at the Signing Date, and any other documents entered into by either Obligor that are not Finance Documents, are required in relation to the Project and are designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower, and "" means any of them.
Project Documents
The Project Documents
Project Document
"" means M+W Zander Facility Engineering GmbH or any person who replaces them as Project Engineer from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Project Engineer
"" means the design, development and construction of the Project at the Site and any other works contemplated in the Project Documents in relation to the Project.
Project Works
"" means the purchase agreement dated on or about the date hereof made between Leipziger Messe GmbH, Fab 36 Beteiligungs GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., concerning the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower () and the purchase agreement dated on or about the date hereof made between Leipziger Messe GmbH, Fab 36 Beteiligungs GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and the Borrower concerning the Participations of the Limited Partners who are not members of the Group ().
Purchase Agreements
Gesellschaftsanteile
"Kaufvertrag ber Kommanditgesellschaftsanteile"
"Kaufvertrag ber stille Beteiligungen"
"" means in respect of any payment by the Borrower or the Guarantor which is capable of attracting a Tax Deduction (as defined in Clause 12.1 ()), a Lender which is beneficially entitled to a payment of interest under a Finance Document and which is both a German Qualifying Lender and a US Qualifying Lender.
Qualifying Lender
Definitions
"" means the last day of each Fiscal Quarter.
Quarter Date
"" means, in relation to any period for which an interest rate is to be determined, (i) (if the currency is Euro) two TARGET Days before the first day of that period and (ii) (if the currency is Dollar) two Business Days before the first day of that period, in each case unless market practice differs in the European interbank market (or if the currency is Dollar, in the London interbank market), in which case the Quotation Day will be determined by the Facility Agent in accordance with market practice in the relevant interbank market (and if quotations would normally be given by leading banks in the relevant interbank market on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of those days).
Quotation Date
 
"" means Angermann & Lders GmbH & Co. KG or any person who replaces them as Real Estate Appraiser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Real Estate Appraiser
"" means Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S.A. and Dresdner Bank AG and the principal offices of such other banks as may be appointed by the Facility Agent in consultation with the Borrower.
Reference Banks
"" means, in relation to a Utilisation Request, each invoice in relation to which that Utilisation Request has been given, as identified in such Utilisation Request and relating to the purchase of Equipment and the payment of costs for Services incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of implementing the Project (in accordance with the Business Plan).
Relevant Invoice
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 19.1 ().
Relevant Period
Financial Definitions
"" means each of the dates specified in the table in Clause 6.1 ().
Repayment Date
Repayment of the Loans
"" means, in relation to each Repayment Date, the amount by which the aggregate principal amount of the EUR Outstandings and the USD Outstandings is to be reduced on that Repayment Date in accordance with paragraph (a) of Clause 6.1 (), as reduced, if applicable, in accordance with Clause 7.1 () to Clause 7.4 () (inclusive), or Clause 7.7 () to 7.10 () (inclusive).
Repayment Instalment
Repayment of the Loans
Illegality
Mandatory Prepayment from the Escrow Account
Voluntary Prepayment of the Loans
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
"" means each of the representations set out in Clause 17.2 () to Clause 17.8 () (inclusive), Clause 17.11 () to Clause 17.23 () (inclusive) and Clause 17.27 () to Clause 17.31 () (inclusive).
Repeating Representations
Status
Governing Law and Enforcement
No Default
No Security
Management Plans
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
"" means:
Reports
 
 
 
 
 
 
each such Report, other than that set out in paragraph (d) above, being addressed to, or permitted to be relied upon by, the Finance Parties, and "" shall be construed accordingly.
Report
"" means the insurance cover under the policies taken out pursuant to the contracts set out in Schedule 17 ().
Required Insurance
Required Insurance
"" means the revolving credit agreement in an amount of EUR 750,000,000 dated 21 April 2004 made between the Guarantor and the Borrower.
Revolving Credit Agreement
"" means:
Screen Rate
 
 
displayed on the appropriate page of the Telerate screen. If the agreed page is replaced or service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate after consultation with the Borrower and the Lenders.
"" means LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH.
Second General Partner
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or other successor United States governmental authority.
SEC
"" means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.
Security
"" means the security agency agreement to be made between the Borrower, the Guarantor, the General Partner, the Second General Partner, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the Finance Parties, in the form set out in Schedule 10 ().
Security Agency Agreement
Form of Security Agency Agreement
"" means the assignment agreements dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the fixed and current assets of the Borrower.
Security Assignment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Federal/State Guarantors and the Obligors (or Subsidiaries of the Obligors), and "" means any of them.
Security Providers
Security Provider
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Part II of Schedule 3 () given in accordance with Clause 9 ().
Selection Notice
Requests
Interest Periods
"" means the installation and commissioning of the Equipment and any additional building and installation services associated therewith.
Services
"" means the following agreements providing for first ranking pledges over:
Share Pledges
 
 
 
 
relating to all present and future shares held by such partners.
"" means the date of this Agreement.
Signing Date
"" means the real property purchased and buildings to be erected at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden in relation to the Project.
Site
"" means a time determined in accordance with Schedule 9 ().
Specified Time
Timetables
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Standard & Poor's
"" means any loan made to, or debt instrument issued by, the Borrower, under a Subordinated Loan Agreement, the Revolving Credit Agreement or any other document or instrument, which is subordinated to the rights and claims of the Finance Parties in accordance with the Subordination Agreement.
Subordinated Loan
"" means any agreement pursuant to which the Guarantor provides a subordinated loan to the Borrower, which subordinated loan will be subject to the restrictions imposed by Clause 20.20 () and Clause 20.21 ().
Subordinated Loan Agreement
Subordinated Loans
Distributions
"" means the subordination agreement made amongst, , the Borrower, the Guarantor, the General Partner, the Second General Partner, the Limited Partners and the Finance Parties in relation to the equity and subordinated debt of the Borrower and other claims of the Affiliates of the Borrower in the form set out in Schedule 11 ().
Subordination Agreement
inter alia
Form of Subordination Agreement
"" means, in relation to any company, corporation or partnership:
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
 
and, for this purpose, a company, corporation or partnership shall be treated as being controlled by another if that other company, corporation or partnership is able to direct its affairs and/or to control the composition of its board of directors or equivalent body.
 
"" means any agreement made by the Borrower or any administrative decision () addressed to the Borrower in relation to grants and/or allowances () in connection with the Project and any statutory or other obligations imposed on the Borrower associated therewith.
Subsidy Agreement
Bescheid
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system.
TARGET
"" means any day on which TARGET is open for the settlement of payments in EUR.
TARGET Day
"" means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying any of the same).
Tax
"" means Fraunhofer Institut Siliziumtechnologie (ISIT), Fraunhoferstrae 1, 25524 Itzehoe, or any person who replaces them as Technical Adviser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Technical Adviser
"" means Emerald Technology Valuations LLC or any person who replaces them as Technical Appraiser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Technical Appraiser
"" means attainment of the following:
Technical Completion
 
 
 
"" means 31 March 2011.
Termination Date
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments, being seven hundred million (700,000,000) EUR at the Signing Date.
Total Commitments
"" means the Finance Documents and the Project Documents and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower and "" means any of them.
Transaction Documents
Transaction Document
"" means any Security for all or any part of the obligations of the Borrower under the Finance Documents or any of them expressed to be created by or pursuant to, or to be evidenced in, the Security Documents or any of them.
Transaction Security
 
"" means a certificate substantially in one of the forms set out in Schedule 5 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Borrower.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificates
"" means, in relation to a transfer, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
"" means any currency or interest purchase, cap or collar agreement, forward rate agreement, interest rate or currency future or option contract, foreign exchange or currency purchase or sale agreement, interest rate swap, currency swap or combined interest rate and currency swap agreement and any other similar agreement.
Treasury Transaction
"" means the German Treaty and the US Treaty, and "" means any of them.
Treaties
Treaty
"" means a jurisdiction having both a German Treaty and a US Treaty.
Treaty State
"" means any sum due and payable but unpaid by the Borrower under the Finance Documents.
Unpaid Sum
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth from time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the U.S. accounting profession), as applicable.
US GAAP
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the outstanding Loans denominated in USD.
USD Outstandings
"" means:
US Qualifying Lender
 
 
"" means a double taxation agreement with the United States which makes provision for full exemption of tax imposed by the United States on interest.
US Treaty
"" means a Lender which:
US Treaty Lender
 
 
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction to which a US Treaty applies.
US Treaty State
"" means a utilisation of the Facility.
Utilisation
"" means the date of a Utilisation, being the date on which the relevant Loan is made or to be made.
Utilisation Date
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Part I of Schedule 3 ().
Utilisation Request
Requests
"" means value added tax and any other tax of a similar nature.
VAT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrower a term loan facility to be utilised in either EUR or USD in an aggregate amount the Base Currency Amount of which is equal to the Total Commitments.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Facility in or towards the payment of the Relevant Invoices (unless the Utilisation(s) are made for the purposes of being deposited into the Escrow Account).
 
 
The Borrower will ensure that within five (5) Business Days of the Signing Date, the Facility Agent will have received all of the documents and other evidence listed in Part I () of Schedule 2 () in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders promptly upon being so satisfied.
Initial Conditions Precedent
Conditions Precedent
 
 
 
 
The Lenders will only be obliged to comply with Clause 5.4 () if on the date of any further Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date, and the Facility Agent will only be obliged to permit a withdrawal from the Escrow Account (other than as required for investments in permitted Cash Equivalents) if on the date of a request for such withdrawal and on the date of such withdrawal:
Lenders' Participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower may utilise the Facility by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request not later than at the Specified Time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, prior to the date on which it receives a Utilisation Request, the Facility Agent receives a notice of cancellation of the whole or part of the Available Facility which is to take effect under Clause 7.8 () on a date falling on or after such date (but before the Loan requested in that Utilisation Request has been made), such Available Facility shall be treated, for the purpose of Clause 5.3 (), as if it had already been reduced by the amount of such cancellation (as specified in such notice). Nothing in this Clause 5.5 shall be treated as reducing any Lender's Available Commitment under the Facility for the purposes of Clause 11.1 () prior to the date on which such cancellation would otherwise take effect pursuant to such cancellation notice.
Voluntary Cancellation
Currency and Amount
Commitment Fee
 
If a Lender's Commitment is cancelled under Clause 7.1 () or Clause 7.10 () after the Facility Agent has received a Utilisation Request but before the Loan requested in that Utilisation Request has been made, then, unless the commitment to advance an amount equal to the proportion which such Lender's Commitment bore to the Total Commitments immediately prior to such cancellation taking effect (the "") is assumed by, either:
Illegality
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
Affected/Subject Lender's Proportion
 
 
within one (1) day of receipt of such Utilisation Request, that Loan shall be reduced by the amount of the Affected/Subject Lender's Proportion.
 
The Borrower shall select the currency of a Loan in a Utilisation Request. A selection of USD as the currency for a Loan is not possible when
 
 
 
If before any Quotation Day:
 
 
the Facility Agent will give notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor to that effect by 11 a.m. on that Quotation Day. In this event, any Lender that gives notice pursuant to this Clause 5.8 will be required to participate in the Loan in the Base Currency (in an amount equal to that Lender's proportion of the Base Currency Amount) and its participation will be treated as a separate Loan denominated in the Base Currency during that Interest Period.
 
Loans denominated in USD cannot be reconverted to EUR, except as provided in Clause 20.36 ().
Reconversion of USD Outstandings
 
Each Lender's participation in a Loan will be determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of Clause 5.4 ().
Lenders' participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If on any scheduled Repayment Date the Credit Rating is Caa2 or lower by Moody's or CCC or lower by Standard & Poor's, the Borrower shall, in accordance with the directions of the Facility Agent (acting on the instructions of the Majority Lenders), ensure that the Cash reserves to be held in accordance with Clause 20.18 () shall be increased as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that Clause.
Minimum Cash Balances
 
 
 
 
the Federal/State Guarantors which agree(s) to the Extension as requested by a Renewal Request shall notify the Facility Agent of its agreement within sixty (60) days after the date on which the Facility Agent has notified the Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors (the ""). If a Lender or the Federal/State Guarantors do not so notify the Facility Agent, it/they will be deemed to have declined or vetoed the Extension.
Renewal Decision Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may request of the Affected Lender, and the Affected Lender shall in good faith consider such request, that it transfer all of its Loans and Commitments to such Eligible Transferee in accordance with Clause 22.5 (); , prior to or concurrently with such replacement:
Procedure for Transfer
provided that
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of receipt of such Net Proceeds by the Borrower; , that the Borrower shall be deemed to have applied Net Proceeds in accordance with this Clause 7.2 prior to the expiration of such one hundred and eighty (180) days if and to the extent it has presented to the Facility Agent one or more purchase orders for property or assets to be used in connection with the Project;
provided however
bona fide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in either case, within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of receipt of such Insurance Proceeds by the Borrower (or the Borrower has entered into binding agreements to apply such Insurance Proceeds within such one hundred and eighty (180) day period).
 
 
On the date falling twelve (12) Months after the end of the Availability Period, any and all sums remaining in the Escrow Account shall be immediately applied in prepayment of the EUR Outstandings and the USD Outstandings in accordance with Clause 7.5 (), and the Facility Agent shall be entitled to take all action necessary to effect such application.
Application of Prepayments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any cancellation, except in the case of a cancellation pursuant to Clause 7.1 () or Clause 7.10 (), shall reduce the Commitments of the Lenders rateably. No amount so cancelled may be reborrowed.
Illegality
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
 
If the provisions of Clause 7.1 () (subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of Clause 7.1) to Clause 7.3 () (inclusive) would require the prepayment of a Loan otherwise than on the last day of an Interest Period relating to that Loan, the Borrower may, by written notice to the Facility Agent (to be received not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the date on which such prepayment
Illegality
Mandatory Prepayment from Insurance Proceeds
 
would be required to be made (but for this Clause 7.6)), request that the amount of such prepayment be applied by the Facility Agent in prepayment of the relevant Loan on the last day of the then current Interest Period relating to that Loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may, whilst (in the case of paragraphs (i) and (ii) above) the circumstance giving rise to the requirement or indemnification continues or (in the case of paragraph (iii) above) that Minimum Reserve Cost is greater than zero, give the Facility Agent at least seven (7) Business Days' prior written notice of cancellation of the Commitments of that Lender (the "") and its intention to procure the repayment of the Subject Lender's participation in the Loans.
Subject Lender
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may request of the Subject Lender, and the Subject Lender shall in good faith consider such request, that it transfer all of its Loans and Commitments to such Eligible Transferee in accordance with Clause 22.5 (); , prior to or concurrently with such replacement:
Procedure for Transfer
provided that
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate which is the aggregate of the applicable:
per annum
 
 
 
, that for Loans the proceeds of which are disbursed into the Escrow Account, interest on that portion of the Loans the proceeds of which are held in the Escrow Account from time to time shall be determined based on one half (50%) of the Margin .
provided however
per annum
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the Initial Margin shall apply to all periods until and including the first (1
provided that
st
) anniversary of the Signing Date; and , in respect of all other periods, in the event that neither Credit Rating is available for more than thirty (30) days, the Margin as calculated above will convert to [***] (the "") with retrospective effect from the date on which both Credit Ratings were no longer available.
further provided that
per cent. per annum
Safety Margin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that change shall be reversed with retrospective effect, the Margin applicable to the Facility shall be that justified by the correct Credit Rating, amounts of interest calculated by reference to the changed Margin (whether or not already paid) shall be recalculated by reference to the Margin applicable to such correct Credit Rating and the Borrower or the Lenders, as the case may be, shall be required to make a payment to the Facility Agent, in such amounts as the Facility Agent may specify, to cover any difference in amounts of interest which should have actually been received by the Lenders following any recalculation. The Facility Agent's determination of any such difference shall, save in the case of manifest error, be conclusive and the Facility Agent shall provide the Borrower and the Lenders with reasonable details of the calculation of such difference in Margin.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay accrued interest on each Loan on the last day of each Interest Period (and, if the Interest Period is longer than three (3) Months, on the dates falling at three (3) monthly intervals after the first day of the Interest Period).
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 10.2 (), if EURIBOR or, if applicable, LIBOR is to be determined by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a quotation by the Specified Time on the Quotation Day, the applicable EURIBOR or LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Banks.
Market Disruption
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) an agency fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
 
 
 
In the event of an Extension under Clause 6.3 (), an extension fee will be payable by the Borrower as provided in that Clause.
Extension of Termination Date
 
 
 
 
" " means a Lender that is or will be subject to any liability, or required to make any payment, for or on account of Tax in relation to a sum received or receivable (or any sum deemed for the purposes of Tax to be received or receivable) under a Finance Document.
Protected Party
"" means a credit against, relief or remission for, or repayment of, any Tax.
Tax Credit
"" means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
"" means an increased payment made by the Borrower to a Lender under Clause 12.2 () or a payment under Clause 12.3 ().
Tax Payment
Tax Gross-up
Tax Indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if in either case that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Lender; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Lender shall pay an amount to the Borrower which that Lender determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Borrower. Upon the request of the Borrower, the relevant Lender will use its reasonable endeavours (to the extent commercially practicable and legally permitted) to recover such Tax Credit.
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay and, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability that Finance Party incurs in relation to all stamp duty, registration and other similar Taxes payable in respect of any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enacted or made after the Signing Date.
 
 
 
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates to the extent that it is attributable to that Finance Party having entered into its Commitment or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower shall as an independent obligation, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party to whom that Sum is due against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the conversion including any discrepancy between (A) the rate of exchange used to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (B) the rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt of that Sum.
 
 
The Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability incurred by that Finance Party as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall promptly indemnify the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and the Reporting Agent against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Facility Agent, the Security Agent or the Reporting Agent (in each case acting reasonably) as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall promptly on demand pay to each Agent the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel (limited, until the Signing Date, to one external legal counsel for all the Agents and the Lenders) and any other third party advice) together with any VAT payable in respect thereof incurred by any of them in connection with the evaluation, development, negotiation, preparation, printing, execution and delivery of:
 
 
 
If the Borrower requests an amendment, waiver or consent, the Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, reimburse each Agent for the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by each Agent in responding to, evaluating, negotiating or complying with that request or requirement.
 
The Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, pay to each Finance Party the amount of all documented costs and out-of-pocket expenses (including any documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by that Finance Party in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document.
 
The Borrower shall promptly on demand pay to the Security Agent the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by the Security Agent (for its own account and that of any Finance Party) in connection with the administration or release of any of the Transaction Security.
 
The Borrower will pay to the Federal/State Guarantors any costs in connection with the issue of the Federal/State Guarantee and any costs of any report () produced or inspections () carried out in respect of the Federal/State Guarantee by or on behalf of the Federal/State Guarantors.
Gutachten
Prfungen
 
In respect of Clause 16.1 (), 16.2 () and 16.4 (), the relevant Agent shall inform the Borrower of its choice of external legal counsel before instructing such external legal counsel.
Transaction Expenses
Amendment Costs
Security Agent's Costs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, no administrator, receiver, insolvency trustee, bankruptcy examiner, liquidator or similar officer or official has been appointed with respect to itself or, as far as it is aware, the Guarantor or any of its assets or, as far as it is aware, any of the Guarantor's and (to the best of its knowledge and belief) no petition by a third party or proceeding for any such appointment is pending nor, has any resolution for any such appointment been passed in relation to itself or the Guarantor.
 
The obligations expressed to be assumed by it in each Transaction Document to which it is a party are, subject to any general principles of law limiting its obligations which are specifically referred to in any legal opinion delivered pursuant to Clause 4 () and the conditions precedent set forth in the Finance Documents, legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations.
Conditions of Utilisation
 
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party do not and will not conflict with:
 
 
 
nor (except as provided in any Security Documents) result in the creation of, or oblige it to create, any Security (other than Permitted Security) over any of its assets.
 
It has the power to enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Transaction Documents.
 
All Authorisations (not including the EU Notification Approval) required:
 
 
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, save for (i) any filings, registrations or notarisations required in relation to the Security Documents, which filings, registrations or notarisations will be made promptly after execution of the relevant documents and in any event within applicable time limits, or (ii) such filings, registrations or notarisations which have been obtained and effected.
 
The choice of German law as the governing law of the Finance Documents which are expressed to be governed by German law (or, in respect of any Security Document to which it is a party, the choice of the relevant governing law of that Security Document) will be recognised and enforced in Germany.
 
To the extent that a payment under a Finance Document is made to a Qualifying Lender and such Qualifying Lender has provided all the documentation required under applicable laws and regulations, it is not required under the law of Germany to make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any such payment.
 
Under the law of Germany, it is not necessary that the Finance Documents be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in Germany or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents or the transactions contemplated therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
giving notice of its SEC filings, it has registered and has taken all requisite actions (including payment of fees) required to maintain in full force and effect any registered Intellectual Property Rights owned by it which are material in the context of its business or which are required to be registered under applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Its payment obligations under the Finance Documents rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
Except as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through the Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no material litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency in
 
relation to an Obligor, the Project or any Transaction Document which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect have been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it.
 
 
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through the Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no Environmental Claim in relation to the Project has been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Indebtedness, it has:
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Security:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Information Memorandum that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Business Plan that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , the Borrower makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date that the most recent Management Plan was delivered to the Facility Agent that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , the Borrower makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
It has not made, or taken any steps to make, any substantial change to the Permitted Business.
 
It has not entered into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
The Borrower has disclosed in writing, or by use of websites in accordance with Clause 18.6 (), to the Facility Agent all material information in its possession relating to the Project, including all Project Documents and other material agreements.
Use of Websites
 
It has at all times complied in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it.
 
The Repeating Representations are deemed to be made by the Borrower to each Finance Party by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing (except as otherwise provided therein) on the first Utilisation Date, on the date of each Utilisation Request, on the first day of each Interest Period and, prior to the first Utilisation Date, on each Quarter Date.
 
The undertakings in this Clause 18 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Facility Agent and, in the case of paragraph (e) below, to the Reporting Agent in sufficient numbers for all the Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as soon as the same become available, but in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter in each of its financial years:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for all the Lenders, if the Facility Agent so requests) the following, in each case in respect of the Borrower (unless otherwise noted):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and shall ensure that senior management is available once a year for the purpose of a meeting with the Lenders and the Facility Agent in relation thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The covenants in this Clause 19 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
 
"" means any bank which is an authorised banking institution under applicable legislation and whose short-term debt securities are rated at least P-1 by Moody's or A-1 by Standard & Poor's or as the Facility Agent may approve.
Approved Bank
"" means:
Cash
 
 
"" means:
Cash Equivalents
 
 
 
 
which, in each case, have no more than twelve (12) Months to final maturity.
 
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, the profit on ordinary activities of the Borrower but:
EBIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, EBIT for such Relevant Period before taking into account:
EBITDA
 
 
 
"" means the aggregate net book value (based on the Borrower's latest Fiscal Quarterly or audited annual financial statements, as applicable), as at the date of computation, of the following assets of the Borrower:
Fixed Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, the aggregate amount of the interest (including the interest element of leasing and hire purchase payments; but, excluding interest relating to Participations as permitted under paragraph (b)(i) of the definition of ""), interest accrued (excluding interest on intercompany loans to the extent not payable), commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges of whatsoever nature payable by the Borrower (including any commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges payable by the Borrower under any interest rate hedging arrangement) but after deducting any commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges receivable by the Borrower under any interest rate hedging arrangement.
Interest Payable
Permitted Distributions
"" means, the ratio of:
Loan to Fixed Asset Value
 
 
"" means, in respect of any person, the jurisdiction of the country in which such person is incorporated and, if different, where it is resident or has its principal place of business, and each jurisdiction or state in which it owns or leases property or otherwise conducts its business.
Relevant Jurisdiction
"" means each period of twelve (12) months ending on the last day of each of the Borrower's financial years and/or each period of twelve (12) months that corresponds with four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ending on the Quarter Date on which the relevant calculation falls to be made.
Relevant Period
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Loan to Fixed Asset Value as at the end of any Relevant Period specified in Column A below shall not exceed the percentage set out opposite such Relevant Period in Column B below:
 
 
All calculations made for the purposes of the covenants set out in Clause 19.2 () shall be made by reference to the following:
Loan to Fixed Asset Value
 
 
 
The financial covenants set out in this Clause 19 shall be tested:
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause 20 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
 
 
 
any Authorisation required under any law or regulation of Germany to enable it to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility in evidence in Germany.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall at all times comply in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commencing 1 January 2004, the Borrower shall ensure that each of its financial years and each Fiscal Quarter in each of its financial years shall end on a Quarter Date, unless such change is permitted by the requirements of Clause 18.3 () and to the extent it complies with the requirements set out therein.
Requirements as to Financial Statements
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not request any change to its constitutional documents or request or permit any change to any Participation Agreement in relation to its partnership interests, without the prior written consent of the Facility Agent, where such change relates to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall maintain and preserve all of its assets that are necessary in the conduct of the Permitted Business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
paragraphs (a) and (b) above and shall, in any event, use all reasonable endeavours to procure that the insurer in respect of such insurances undertakes to the Facility Agent to notify it should any renewal fee or other sum payable by the Borrower not be paid when due.
 
 
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall obtain and maintain all requisite Environmental Licences required in relation to the Project and will comply in all material respects with:
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Borrower shall inform the Facility Agent in writing as soon as reasonably practicable upon its becoming aware of:
 
 
where the claim might, if determined against the Borrower, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents will rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
 
 
 
(the ""). The Borrower may elect to satisfy the Minimum Cash requirement by maintaining Cash balances and Cash Equivalent balances only in USD, in an aggregate amount equivalent to the relevant amounts as stated above, if and as long as the Group Consolidated Cash, as shown in the most recent financial statements and certificates to be provided to the Facility Agent pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, amounts to no less than USD 500,000,000. If the Borrower maintains such balances in USD, compliance with the Minimum Cash requirement shall be measured on the last Business Day of each Month by reference to the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on that Business Day.
Minimum Cash
 
 
 
The Borrower shall comply in all material respects with and perform all of its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party.
 
Other than as permitted pursuant to Clause 20.21 (), from the date of first Utilisation, the Borrower shall not:
Distributions
 
 
in each case under any intra Group loan document and/or Subordinated Loan other than in accordance with the Subordination Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
subject at all times to the maintenance of the Minimum Cash.
 
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any amalgamation, demerger or merger.
 
From the date of first Utilisation, the Borrower shall not:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any Treasury Transaction except for any foreign exchange transactions for spot or forward delivery entered into in the ordinary course of business (and not for investment or speculative purposes) to hedge currency and interest rate-related exposures incurred by it.
 
The Borrower shall not pay any fees or commissions to any person other than:
 
 
 
The Borrower will not enter into any arrangement or contract with any of its Affiliates or any other member of the Group save where such arrangement or contract is entered into on an arm's length basis.
 
The Borrower shall not:
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not :
 
 
 
any partnership, consortium or Joint Venture in which it has or will have an interest or agree to do any of the foregoing.
 
The Borrower shall not amend, vary, novate, supplement or terminate any Transaction Document to which a Finance Party is not a party delivered to the Facility Agent pursuant to Clause 4 (), or waive any right thereunder, except for:
Conditions of Utilisation
 
 
 
The Borrower shall at all times have its accounts audited by the Auditors.
 
The Borrower shall not own any shareholdings in any Subsidiaries.
 
Following the date of Technical Completion, at least eighty (80) . of the personnel not engaged in general or administrative activities of the Borrower will at all times be employees of the Borrower itself.
per cent
 
The Borrower undertakes to comply with and to fulfill all covenants and other ancillary requirements applicable to it in connection with the grant and/or allowance of subsidies (/) to it under the Subsidy Agreement. The Borrower also undertakes to ensure that all obligations (as the case may be, as amended from time to time) undertaken by it in connection with the granting of other state aid (in particular, investment allowances) are fulfilled.
Investitionszuschsse
Investitionszulagen
 
 
 
 
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, all USD Outstandings will be converted into EUR Outstandings with effect as of a date notified to the Borrower by the Facility Agent in writing no later than two Business Days prior thereto, on the basis of the Facility Agent' Spot Rate of Exchange as per the date of such notice. The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent, for the account of the Lenders, on the Business Day following the date of the notice an amount equivalent to the sum of (i) the excess of the USD Amount over the Current Limit determined as per the date of the Facility Agent's notice and (ii) the amount specified by the Facility Agent as the Break Costs and the other costs reasonably incurred, and losses suffered, by the Finance Parties as a result of the conversion. Upon receipt by the Facility Agent of such payment, or if the relevant USD Amount is equal to or lower than the relevant Current Limit on the day of the Facility Agent's notice, the Cash Account Pledge shall be released by the Security Agent and the Lenders.
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
 
On and at any time after the occurrence of an event or circumstance set out in this Clause 21 which is continuing and, if in case of an event or circumstance pursuant to Clause 21.3 (), Clause 21.5 (, Clauses 21.9 () to 21.14 (), Clauses 21.16 () to 21.19 () and paragraphs (c) and (d) of Clause 21.21 (), such event or circumstance has adverse consequences for the Lenders' risk and security position, such event or circumstance shall constitute an event of default (an ""). Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default the Lenders shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement for cause (), and to avail themselves in such case of the rights enumerated below:
Financial Covenants
Misrepresentation)
Ownership of the Borrower
Auditors' Qualification
Change of Control
Project Documents
Guarantor's Non-Compliance
Event of Default
wichtiger Grund
 
 
 
 
the Facility Agent may, and shall if so directed by the Majority Lenders or by the Federal/State Guarantors, by notice to the Borrower:
 
 
 
 
 
An Obligor does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a Finance Document at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable, unless payment is made within five (5) Business Days of its due date.
 
Any requirement of Clause 19 () and/or Clause 12 () of the Guarantee Agreement is not satisfied.
Financial Covenants
Financial Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the Facility Agent giving notice to the Borrower or the Borrower becoming aware of the failure to comply.
 
Any representation or statement made or deemed to be made by an Obligor in the Finance Documents or any other document delivered by or on behalf of either Obligor under or in connection with any Finance Document is or proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made or repeated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, relief of debtors or protection of creditors, termination of legal entities or any other similar law now or hereafter in effect and which are not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the commencement of such proceedings or such appointment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any attachment, sequestration, distress or execution affects:
 
 
and is not discharged within thirty (30) days.
 
The Guarantor ceases to own, directly or indirectly, a majority of the voting capital of the Borrower without having first obtained the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors, such consent not having been unreasonably withheld or delayed.
 
If:
 
 
 
 
 
If:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Obligor ceases to carry on all or any substantial part of its business or proposes to do so.
 
The Auditors qualify their certification of the audited financial statements () of the Borrower or qualify their report in any manner that is, in the opinion of the Majority Lenders, materially adverse in the context of the Finance Documents and the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents.
Einschrnkung des Besttigungsvermerks
 
Any event or circumstance occurs which the Majority Lenders reasonably believe has had or is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
There is a Change of Control.
 
 
 
amended, terminated, suspended, withdrawn or revoked, in whole or in part, or does not remain in full force and effect or otherwise expires and is not renewed prior to its expiry (in each case, without an alternative or replacement Authorisation, on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Facility Agent, being in place within thirty (30) days and having substantially equivalent effect).
 
 
The Borrower utilises the Facility in whole or in part for any purposes other than those set out in Clause 3 ().
Purpose
 
If:
 
 
 
the consequences of which would adversely affect the rights of the Finance Parties under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
by another Limited Partner or third parties approved by, and on terms satisfactory to, the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors within sixty (60) days after the due date of any such equity contribution or Subordinated Loans; however, within one hundred and eighty (180) days thereafter, such equity contribution or Subordinated Loans may be replaced by third party equity or other Subordinated Loans approved by, and on terms satisfactory to, both the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors.
 
 
 
The Guarantor does not comply with its obligations in relation to any of the following:
 
 
 
 
unless failure by the Guarantor to comply with any such obligation mentioned in relation to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then the New Lender or Lender acting through its new Facility Office is only entitled to receive payment under those Clauses to the same extent as the Existing Lender or Lender acting through its previous Facility Office would have been if the assignment, transfer or change had not occurred.
 
If the New Lender is not an Affiliate of a Lender the New Lender shall, on the date upon which an assignment or transfer takes effect, pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) a fee of two thousand (2,000) EUR.
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, in relation to paragraph (i) (other than any a person who is otherwise bound by contractual or professional confidentiality obligations) and paragraph (ii) above, the person to whom the information is to be given has entered into a Confidentiality Undertaking.
provided that
 
 
Each Obligor shall execute and do all such transfers, assignments, assurances, acts and things as the Facility Agent may reasonably request for perfecting and completing any assignment and transfer by a Lender; , such Lender reimburses the Obligors for their respective reasonable costs and expenses and such assignment and transfer is permitted pursuant to this Clause 22.
provided however
 
 
The Borrower may not assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, each Mandated Lead Arranger has no obligations of any kind to any other Party under or in connection with any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None of the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, the Reporting Agent and the Mandated Lead Arrangers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Mandated Lead Arrangers that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Finance Document including but not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall treat the Sharing Payment as if it had been paid by the relevant Obligor and distribute it between the Finance Parties (other than the Recovering Finance Party) in accordance with Clause 27.5 ().
Partial Payments
 
 
 
 
If any part of the Sharing Payment received or recovered by a Recovering Finance Party becomes repayable and is repaid by that Recovering Finance Party, then:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each payment received by the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents for another Party shall, subject to Clause 27.3 (), Clause 27.4 () and Clause 27.9 (), be made available by the Facility Agent as soon as practicable after receipt to the Party entitled to receive payment in accordance with this Agreement (in the case of a Lender, for the account of its Facility Office), to such account as that Party may notify to the Facility Agent by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice with a bank in the principal financial centre of the country of that currency (or, in relation to EUR, in a principal financial centre in a Participating Member State or London).
Distributions to an Obligor
Clawback
Payments to the Security Agent
 
The Facility Agent and the Security Agent may (with the consent of the Obligor or in accordance with Clause 28 ()) apply any amount received by it for that Obligor in or towards payment (on the date and in the currency and funds of receipt) of any amount due from that Obligor under the Finance Documents or in or towards purchase of any amount of any currency to be so applied.
Set-Off
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments to be made by the Borrower under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and be made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim; except in respect of claims of the Borrower which are either undisputed between the relevant Finance Party and such Obligor or which have been the subject of a final court judgement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of any Finance Document, at any time after any of the Transaction Security becomes enforceable, the Security Agent may require:
 
 
in each case as the Security Agent may direct for application in accordance with the terms of the Finance Documents.
 
A Finance Party may set off any matured obligation due from an Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any obligation (whether matured or not) owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with the Finance Documents shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax, letter or telex.
 
The address, fax number and telex number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of each Party, the Guarantor and the Federal/State Guarantors for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with the Finance Documents is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any substitute address, fax number, telex number or department or officer as the Party and/or the Guarantor and/or the Federal/State Guarantors may notify to the Facility Agent (or the Facility Agent may notify to the other Parties, the Guarantor and the Federal/State Guarantors, if a change is made by the Facility Agent) by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice.
 
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause 29.2 (), if addressed to that department or officer.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
Promptly upon receipt of notification of an address, fax number and telex number or change of address, fax number or telex number pursuant to Clause 29.2 () or changing its own address, fax number or telex number, the Facility Agent shall notify the other Parties.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
In any litigation or arbitration proceedings arising out of or in connection with a Finance Document, the entries made in the accounts maintained by a Finance Party are evidence of the matters to which they relate.
prima facie
 
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under any Finance Document is, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
Any interest, commission or fee accruing under a Finance Document will accrue from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of three hundred and sixty (360) days.
 
If, at any time, any provision of the Finance Documents is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of any Finance Party, any right or remedy under the Finance Documents shall operate as a waiver, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The rights and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall not be made without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
This Agreement is translated into the English language. The English translation (without attachments) is attached hereto in (). However, the German version will at all times be the binding version with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement.
Schedule 19
English non-binding translation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement is governed by German law without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.
 
The District Court of Frankfurt am Main has exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Agreement).
 
The Borrower expressly confirms towards each Finance Party that all funds made available to it under this Agreement will be drawn for its own account, and that it is to be the
 
economic beneficiary () within the meaning of Section 8 Money Laundering Act ().
wirtschaftlich Begnstigter
Geldwschegesetz
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
The Borrower shall ensure that prior to the delivery of the first Utilisation Request, it shall have provided the Facility Agent with the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
however, to the extent that the Limited Partners who are not members of the Group fail to inject their requisite equity respectively in relation to (ii) and (iii) above, evidence from the Borrower that it has incurred and/or raised sufficient alternative debt and/or equity either from existing investors or third parties approved by the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors;
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that on the date of a Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date and on the date of each withdrawal from the Escrow Account:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
[We request that the next Interest Period for the above Loan[s] is [                    ].]
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, we confirm that the financial covenants set out in Clause 19 () [] been complied with during the period in question.
Financial Covenants
have/have not
 
 
(Managing Director (
Geschftsfhrung
))
of
AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability
Company & Co. KG
 
 
[]
insert applicable certification language
______________________
for and on behalf of
Ernst & Young
 
 
D = first day of relevant Interest Period.
D - X = X Business Days prior to D.
 
AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG
 
Financing Uses
 
[If requested by the Facility Agent:] [We hereby confirm (i) that the figures set out above are in agreement with the books and records of AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and (ii) we have conducted an inventory on the premises of AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG of all "" (Equipment) (as this term is defined in the AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability & Co. KG Facility Agreement () dated 21 April 2004, as amended) identified in the attached list of Relevant Invoices.] []
Anlagen
Kreditvertrag
signed by the Auditors
 
 
The insurance policies taken out pursuant to the following documents constitute the "" under this Agreement:
Required Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
less any sums saved during the Indemnity Period as may cease or be reduced in consequence of the interruption or interference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arising out of or in connection with the Project;
 
 
 
To include any insurances that are necessary to comply with statutory requirements in Germany.
 
 
The Borrower
AMD FAB 36 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY & CO. KG
 
The Mandated Lead Arrangers
ABN AMRO BANK N.V.
 
COMMERZBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
 
DEUTSCHE BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
 
DRESDNER KLEINWORT,
THE INVESTMENT BANKING DIVISION
OF DRESDNER BANK AG
 
 
LANDESBANK HESSEN-THRINGEN GIROZENTRALE
 
LANDESBANK SACHSEN GIROZENTRALE
 
The Facility Agent
DRESDNER BANK AG, NIEDERLASSUNG LUXEMBURG
 
The Security Agent and Reporting Agent
DRESDNER BANK AG in BERLIN
 
 
The Lenders
ABN AMRO BANK N.V., NIEDERLASSUNG DEUTSCHLAND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HVB BANQUE LUXEMBOURG SOCIETE ANONYME
 
 
 
 
 
LANDESBANK HESSEN-THRINGEN GIROZENTRALE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is dated 21 April 2004 (amended on 10 October 2006), and made between:
THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
:
WHEREAS
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
In this Guarantee Agreement:
"" means "" (Agent), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Agent
Agent
"" means "" (Auditor), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Auditor
Wirtschaftsprfer
"" means "" (Authorisation), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Authorisation
Genehmigung
 
"" means "" (Base Financial Statement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Base Financial Statement
Basis-Abschlsse
"" means AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG.
Borrower
"" means "" (Business Day), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Business Day
Bankarbeitstag
"" means "" (Business Plan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Business Plan
Geschftsplan
"" means "" (Cash Shortfalls), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Cash Shortfalls
Barmittel-Defizite
"" means "" (Charged Assets), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Charged Assets
Besichertes Vermgen
"" means any Security provided or assumed by a person in favour of the Security Agent securing the Guarantor's Liabilities, whether generally or to a limited extent only and whether created or entered into before, on or after the date of this Guarantee Agreement.
Collateral Security
"" means "" (Commitment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Commitment
Kreditzusage
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 1 ().
Compliance Certificate
Form of Compliance Certificate
"" means "" (Credit Rating), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Credit Rating
Rating
"" means "" (Dangerous Substance), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Dangerous Substance
Gefhrliche Substanzen
"" means "" (Default), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Default
Kndigungstatbestand
"" means "" (Environment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environment
Umwelt
"" means "" (Environmental Claim), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental Claim
Umweltansprche
"" means each of the following and their consequences:
Environmental Contamination
 
 
 
"" means "" (Environmental Law), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental Law
Umweltrecht
"" means "" (Environmental Licence), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental Licence
Umweltgenehmigung
"" means "" (Equipment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Equipment
Anlagen
"" means "" (EU Notification Approval), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
EU Notification Approval
EU-Genehmigung
"" means "" (Event of Default), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Event of Default
Kndigungsgrund
"" means "" (Facility), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Facility
Kredit
"" means a term loan facility agreement of up to EUR700,000,000 dated 21 April 2004, as amended from time to time, made amongst, , the Borrower, the Lenders, Dresdner Bank AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg as Facility Agent and Dresdner Bank AG in Berlin as Security Agent and Reporting Agent (the "").
Facility Agreement
inter alia
Facility Agreement
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantee), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantee
Bundes/Landesbrgschaft
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantor Decision), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantor Decision
Brgschaftsentscheidung
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantors), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantors
Bundes-/Landesbrgen
"" means this Guarantee Agreement, the Facility Agreement, any Fee Letter, any other Security Document and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower and "" means any of them.
Finance Documents
Finance Document
"" means "" (Facility Office), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Facility Office
Kreditgeschftsstelle
"" means "" (Fee Letters), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Fee Letters
Gebhrenvereinbarungen
"" means "" (Finance Party), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Finance Party
Finanzierungspartei
"" means "" (Financial Indebtedness), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Financial Indebtedness
Finanzverbindlichkeit
"" means "" (General Partner), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
General Partner
Komplementr
 
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually, each Subsidiary of the Guarantor incorporated, established or formed in Germany.
German Subsidiaries
"" means "Gruppe" (Group), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Group
"" means for any fiscal month of the Guarantor the amount of all cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of the Guarantor and of all of its Subsidiaries (other than amounts which are "restricted cash" within the meaning of US GAAP, including cash and cash equivalents which are the subject of Security in favour of any party (other than Transaction Security); this exclusion shall however not apply to Security in favour of any relevant account bank constituted by (i) application of standard terms and conditions of financial institutions, (ii) other standard and customary terms and conditions or (iii) operation of law, in each case in respect of accounts which are not subject to any requirement to maintain a minimum balance on such accounts), calculated employing the same method applied in calculating the annual audited and quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, less the aggregate amount of all outstandings under any third-party revolving credit facility agreement (or third party term loan agreement for borrowed money with an original maturity of up to one (1) year) of the Guarantor and any member of the Group.
Group Consolidated Cash
"" means, in relation to the Guarantor and the Group collectively, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits, together with any activity which is ancillary or incidental to any of the above.
Group Permitted Business
"" means the irrevocable and unconditional guarantee issued by the Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement.
Guarantee
"" means all and any sums that may now be, or might at any time in the future become, due, owing, incurred or payable, whether actually or contingently, by the Borrower to the Finance Parties under or pursuant to the Facility Agreement or any other Finance Document to which the Borrower is a party including, without limitation, on account of principal, interest, fees, expenses, indemnity payments, losses or damages and irrespective of:
Guaranteed Liabilities
 
 
 
 
"" means the Guaranteed Liabilities and the Indemnified Liabilities.
Guarantor's Liabilities
"" means all and any sums that may now be, or might at any time in the future become, due, owing, incurred or payable, whether actually or contingently, by the Borrower under or pursuant to the Subsidy Agreements as a result of any repayment claim brought by the Federal Republic of Germany or the Free State of Saxony () in connection with any public allowances or grants (/ ) provided to the Borrower including, without limitation, on account of principal, interest, fees, expenses, indemnity payments, losses or damages and irrespective of:
Indemnified Liabilities
Freistaat Sachsen
Investitionszuschsse
Investitionszulagen
 
 
 
"" means "" (Information Memorandum), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Information Memorandum
Information Memorandum
"" in relation to any person, refers to that person undergoing or being subject to any winding-up, bankruptcy, receivership, administration, re-organisation, scheme of arrangement or composition, moratorium, assignment for the benefit of creditors or any analogous event or proceeding.
Insolvency
"" means "" (Insurance Adviser), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Insurance Adviser
Versicherungsberater
"" means "" (Insurance Report), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Insurance Report
Versicherungsbericht
"" means "" (Intellectual Property), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Intellectual Property
Geistiges Eigentum
"" means "" (Intellectual Property Rights), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights
Immaterialgterrechte
"" means "" (Interest Period), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Interest Period
Zinsperiode
"" means "" (Lender), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Lender
Kapitalgeber
"" means "" (Limited Partners), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Limited Partners
Kommanditisten
"" means "" (Loan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Loan
Kreditbetrag
"" means "" (Majority Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Majority Lenders
Kreditgebermehrheit
"" means "" (Management Plan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Management Plan
Managementplan
"" means "" (Material Adverse Effect), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
Wesentliche Nachteilige Vernderung
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually:
Material Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means "" (Month), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Month
Monat
"" means "" (Obligor), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Obligor
Verpflichteter
"" means "" (Original Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Original Lenders
Ursprngliche Kreditgeber
"" means any person (other than the Guarantor, the Borrower or the Security Agent) who is a party to any Collateral Security.
Other Surety
"" means "Beteiligung" (Participation), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Participation
"" means "" (Participation Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Participation Agreement
Beteiligungsvereinbarung
"" means "" (Partnership Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
Gesellschaftsvertrag
"" means "" (Partnership Interest Pledges), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Partnership Interest Pledges
Verpfndung der Gesellschaftsanteile
"" means "" (Permitted Business), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Business
Zulssiger Geschftsbetrieb
"" means "" (Permitted Indebtedness), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Indebtedness
Zulssige Verbindlichkeiten
"" means "" (Permitted Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Security
Zulssige Sicherheiten
"" means "" (Project), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Project
Projekt
"" means "" (Project Documents), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Project Documents
Projektdokumente
 
"" means "" (Protected Party), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Protected Party
Geschtzte Partei
"" means "" (Qualifying Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Qualifying Lenders
Qualifizierte Kreditgeber
"" means "" (Quarter Date), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Quarter Date
Quartalstag
"" means:
Relevant GAAP
 
 
in respect of any other member of the Group (either alone or including its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) the generally accepted accounting principles and practices of its jurisdiction of incorporation, formation or establishment.
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually, the General Partner, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH and the Borrower.
Relevant Subsidiaries
"" means each of the representations set out in Clause 10.2 () to Clause 10.8 () (inclusive), Clause 10.11 () to Clause 10.23 () (inclusive) and Clause 10.27 () to Clause 10.32 () (inclusive).
Repeating Representations
Status
Governing Law and Enforcement
No Default
No Security
Management Plans
Security from the Borrower
"" means "" (Reporting Agent), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Reporting Agent
Berichtsagentin
"" means "" (Revolving Credit Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Revolving Credit Agreement
Gesellschafter-Barkreditvertrag
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means "" (Second General Partner), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Second General Partner
Zweiter Komplementr
"" means "Sicherheiten" (Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Security
"" means "" (Security Document), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Security Document
Sicherheitendokument
"" means "" (Signing Date), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Signing Date
Tag der Unterzeichnung
"" means "" (Site), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Site
Betriebsgrundstck
"" means "" (Subordinated Loan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordinated Loan
Nachrangige Darlehen
 
"" means "" (Subordinated Loan Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordinated Loan Agreement
Gesellschafter-Tilgungskreditvertrag
"" means "" (Subordination Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordination Agreement
Nachrang- und Kapitalbelassungsvereinbarung
"" means "" (Subsidiary), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subsidiary
Tochtergesellschaft
"" means "" (Subsidy Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subsidy Agreement
Zuschuvertrag
"" means "" (Tax), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax
Steuern
"" means "" (Tax Credit), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Credit
Steuergutschrift
"" means "" (Tax Deduction), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Deduction
Steuerabzug
"" means "" (Tax Payment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Payment
Steuerzahlung
"" means "" (Technical Completion), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Technical Completion
Technische Fertigstellung
"" means "" (Transaction Document), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Transaction Document
Transaktionsdokument
"" means "" (Transaction Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Transaction Security
Transaktionssicherheiten
"" means "" (Treaties), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Treaties
Abkommen
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth from time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the U.S. accounting profession), as applicable.
US GAAP
"" means "" (Utilization Request), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Utilization Request
Ziehungsnotiz
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor undertakes to effect payment hereunder promptly upon receipt of the Security Agent's first written demand and its confirmation in writing that the amount claimed corresponds to the Guarantor's Liabilities.
 
The Guarantee constitutes the Guarantor's primary obligation ( (and not a surety guarantee obligation ()) to make payment to the Security Agent in accordance with the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, under any and all circumstances, regardless of the validity, legality or enforceability of the Facility Agreement or any other Finance Document. Demands may be made under this Guarantee Agreement from time to time and may be enforced irrespective of whether any steps or proceedings are or will be taken against the Borrower or any Other Surety to recover amounts claimed under this Guarantee Agreement.
Garantie)
Brgschaft
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall be a continuing security until all of the Guarantor's Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and shall not be satisfied by any intermediate discharge or payment of or on account of the Guarantor's Liabilities or any of them or any settlement of accounts between the Finance Parties and the Borrower or any Other Surety or the Federal Republic of Germany, the Free State of Saxony (), the Agents and the Borrower.
Freistaat Sachsen
 
 
The Guarantor's liability hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional in all circumstances and shall not be discharged, impaired or otherwise affected by any defences, exceptions, rights of withholding or counterclaims which may be available to the Borrower, including without limitation, any one or more of the following (whether occurring with or without the consent of, or notice to, any person):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor's obligations hereunder are in addition to and not in substitution for any Collateral Security which the Security Agent may now or hereafter hold. This Guarantee Agreement may be enforced without the Security Agent first having recourse to any such Collateral Security and without having to take any steps or proceedings or exhaust any rights against the Borrower or any Other Surety, or may be enforced for any balance due to the Security Agent after having resorted to any one or more such means of obtaining payment and discharge of all or any part of the Guarantor's Liabilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if in either case that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Lender; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Lender shall pay an amount to the Guarantor which that Lender determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Guarantor. Upon the request of the Guarantor, the relevant Lender will use its reasonable endeavours (to the extent commercially practicable and legally permitted) to recover such Tax Credit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any amount is received by the Security Agent in a currency other than that in which the relevant obligation or liability of the Guarantor was payable (the "") (whether pursuant to a judgment, in the Insolvency of the Guarantor or otherwise), such obligation or liability shall be discharged only to the extent that an Agent is able, upon receipt of such amount, to purchase the Required Currency with such other currency in accordance with the usual banking procedures of the Security Agent. If the amount in the Required Currency which may be so purchased is, after deducting any costs of exchange and any other related costs, less than the amount of the relevant obligation or liability, the Guarantor shall, as a separate and independent obligation and notwithstanding any time or other indulgence granted to the Guarantor or any other act, matter or thing, forthwith pay to the Security Agent the amount of the shortfall.
Required Currency
 
 
So long as any Guarantor's Liability remains outstanding or capable of arising the Guarantor waives all rights of subrogation and indemnity against the Borrower and any Other Surety and agrees that it shall not exercise any rights which it may have by reason of performance by it of its obligations hereunder and under the other Finance Documents and it shall not, except as may be directed by the Security Agent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Subordination Agreement, nothing contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall prevent the Guarantor from receiving any payments due to it pursuant to the Project Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, no administrator, receiver, insolvency trustee, bankruptcy examiner, liquidator or similar officer or official has been appointed with respect to the Guarantor, any Material Subsidiary or any Relevant Subsidiary or any of their assets and (to the best of its knowledge and belief) no petition by a third party or proceeding for any such appointment is pending nor has any resolution for any such appointment been passed.
 
The obligations expressed to be assumed by the Guarantor and each Relevant Subsidiary in each Transaction Document to which it is a party are, subject to any general principles of law limiting its obligations which are specifically referred to in any legal opinion delivered pursuant to Clause 4 () of the Facility Agreement and the conditions precedent set forth in the Finance Documents, legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations.
Conditions of Utilisation
 
The entry into and performance by the Guarantor and any other member of the Group that is a party to a Transaction Documents of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which the Guarantor and/or such other member of the Group is a party do not and will not conflict with:
 
 
 
 
nor (except as provided in any Security Documents to which the Guarantor and/or such other member of the Group is a party) result in the creation of, or oblige the Guarantor or such other member of the Group or any of its Subsidiaries to create, any Security (other than Permitted Security) over any material part of its or any of its Subsidiaries' assets.
 
Each of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group that is a party to a Transaction Document has the power to enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Transaction Documents.
 
All Authorisations (not including the EU Notification Approval) required by each of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group that is a party to a Transaction Document:
 
 
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, save for (i) any filings, registrations or notarisations required in relation to the Security Documents to which it is a party, which filings, registrations or notarisations will be made promptly after execution of the relevant documents and in any event within applicable time limits, or (ii) such filings, registrations or notarisations which have been obtained and effected.
 
 
 
 
To the extent that a payment by the Guarantor or any other member of the Group under a Finance Document to which it is a party is made to a Qualifying Lender and such Qualifying Lender has provided all the documentation required under applicable laws and regulations, neither the Guarantor nor such other member of the Group is required under the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation, establishment or formation to make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any such payment.
 
Under the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation, establishment or formation of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group that is a party to a Finance Document, it is not necessary that the Finance Documents to which it is a party be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents to which it is a party or the transactions contemplated therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower has, subject to Permitted Security, good and marketable title to or valid leases or licences of or is otherwise entitled to use all material assets (including the Equipment acquired as at the date of this representation, but not including Intellectual Property which is subject to the provisions of Clause 17.14 () of the Facility Agreement) necessary to carry on its business as it is being conducted.
Intellectual Property Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The payment obligations under the Finance Documents to which each of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group is a party rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
Except as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through the Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no material litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency in relation to an Obligor, the Project or any Transaction Document to which such Obligor is a party which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect have been started or (to the best of that Obligor's knowledge and belief) threatened against it.
 
 
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through the Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no Environmental Claim in relation to its business has been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Indebtedness, the Borrower has:
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Security:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Information Memorandum that results in the information contained therein about any member of the Group being untrue or misleading in any material respect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Business Plan that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , the Guarantor makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date that the most recent Management Plan was delivered to the Facility Agent that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , it makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries has entered into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
The Guarantor has disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent all material information in its possession relating to the Project, including all Project Documents and other material agreements.
 
The Guarantor and each Relevant Subsidiary have at all times complied in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it where failure to do so could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Guarantor has not taken from the Borrower or any Other Surety any Security in respect of the Guarantor's liability hereunder or in respect of any other obligation or liability which the Borrower has or may at any time have to the Guarantor as a result of performance by the Guarantor of its obligations under this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
During the term of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor shall supply to the Facility Agent in sufficient numbers for all the Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantor:
 
 
 
 
each comprising of its balance sheet, profit and loss account and cash flow statement, (and in the case of the Guarantor, together with a description of the business, market and financial developments of the Guarantor as required to be delivered by the Guarantor in its periodic SEC filings);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the case may be, and, if required to be delivered with the audited financial statements delivered pursuant to paragraph (a) of Clause 11.1 (), confirmed by the Auditors.
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the case may be, as fairly representing its financial condition as at the date as at which those financial statements were drawn up (in the case of unaudited financial statements, subject to normal year end adjustments).
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall supply (or shall cause the Borrower to supply, in which case the obligations of the Guarantor under this Clause 11.4 shall be deemed to have been satisfied) to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for all the Lenders, if the Facility Agent so requests) and, in the case of paragraph (e) below, to the Federal/State Guarantors, each case in relation to the Guarantor:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and shall ensure that senior management is available once a year for the purpose of a meeting with the Lenders and the Facility Agent in relation thereto.
 
 
 
 
The covenants in this Clause 12 will remain in force from the date of this Guarantee Agreement until all of the Guarantor's Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and as long as any Commitment is in force.
 
In this Clause 12:
"" means, with respect to any fiscal period of the Guarantor, the Guarantor's net income after provision for income taxes for such fiscal period, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP and reported on the financial statements of the Guarantor (as such financial statements are required to be delivered to the Facility Agent hereunder), but excluding any unaudited year end financial statements, for such period, excluding any and all of the following included in such net income:
Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means all of the Guarantor's assets, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP, except:
Adjusted Tangible Assets
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, at any relevant time, (a) the book value (after deducting related depreciation, obsolescence, amortisation, valuation and other proper reserves as determined in accordance with US GAAP) at which the Adjusted Tangible Assets would be shown on a balance sheet of the Guarantor at such time prepared on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP less (b) the amount at which the Guarantor's liabilities would be shown on such consolidated balance sheet, including as liabilities all reserves for contingencies and other potential liabilities which would be required to be shown on such balance sheet; provided that any and all contributions under the Participations shall not be treated as indebtedness at any time.
Adjusted Tangible Net Worth
"" means, on a consolidated basis for any period, Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations for such period plus, to the extent deducted in computing such Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations, the sum of:
EBITDA
 
 
 
"" means all assets and liabilities, howsoever arising, which are due to the Borrower from, which are due from the Borrower to, or which otherwise arise from any transaction by the Borrower with, the Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Guarantor.
Intercompany Accounts
 
From and after the first date, if any, on which Group Consolidated Cash is less than:
 
the Guarantor will maintain Adjusted Tangible Net Worth, determined as of the last day of each preceding fiscal quarter, of not less than the amounts set out below:
 
 
From and after the first date, if any, on which Group Consolidated Cash is less than:
 
the Guarantor will maintain EBITDA as of the last day of each preceding fiscal period set forth below an amount not less than the amount set forth below opposite the date of such preceding fiscal period:
 
 
The financial covenants set out in this Clause 12 shall be tested by reference to each of the financial statements and each Compliance Certificate delivered pursuant to Clause 11.1 () and Clause 11.2 ().
Financial Statements
Compliance Certificate
 
The undertakings in this Clause 13 remain in force from the date of this Guarantee Agreement until all of the Guarantor's Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and as long as any Commitment is in force.
 
 
 
 
any Authorisation required under any law or regulation of its jurisdiction of incorporation to enable it to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility in evidence in its jurisdiction of incorporation of any Transaction Document to which it is a party.
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall comply in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it where failure to comply could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect on the Guarantor.
 
The Guarantor shall not make, or take any steps to make, any substantial change to the general nature of its business from that of engaging in the Group Permitted Business.
 
The Guarantor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall obtain and maintain all requisite Environmental Licences required in relation to its business and comply in all material respects with:
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Guarantor shall inform the Facility Agent in writing as soon as reasonably practicable upon its becoming aware of:
 
 
where the claim might, if determined against that Material Subsidiary or Relevant Subsidiary, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents will rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
The Guarantor shall comply in all material respects with and perform all of its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party.
 
The Guarantor shall not amend, vary, novate, supplement or terminate any Transaction Document to which it is a party and to which a Finance Party is not a party delivered to the Facility Agent pursuant to Clause 4 () of the Facility Agreement, or waive any right thereunder, except for:
Conditions of Utilisation
 
 
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Project Documents or required by or permitted under any Finance Document, the Guarantor shall not, and the Guarantor shall ensure that each of its Relevant Subsidiaries shall not, assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Project Documents.
 
The Guarantor shall at all times have its accounts and those of the Relevant Subsidiaries audited by the Auditors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
all such interests and participations will be pledged to the Lenders under the Partnership Interest Pledges.
 
The Guarantor will comply and will procure that each Relevant Subsidiary will comply with all the terms of the Federal/State Guarantee Decision which directly apply to it.
 
The Guarantor shall at all times make payments to the Borrower, or otherwise provide funds to the Borrower, in each case without delay in the amount of any Cash Shortfalls, by way of equity contributions, Subordinated Loans or, as the case may be, prepayment for products and/or services (not in excess, however, of the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee Agreement, the Subordinated Loan Agreements, the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Partnership Agreement, and not giving rise to any right of any person (with the exception of the Borrower (to the extent that it is still a member of the Group)) to enforce the relevant funding arrangements).
 
The Guarantor shall not enter into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
The Guarantor will not take from the Borrower or any Other Surety any Security in respect of the Guarantor's liability hereunder or in respect of any other obligation or liability which the Borrower has or may at any time have to the Guarantor as a result of performance by the Guarantor of its obligations under this Guarantee Agreement. If any such Security is taken from the Borrower or any Other Surety, and any monies or other property or assets is received or recovered by the Guarantor in pursuance of, or in breach of, any of the provisions of Clause 9 (), it shall be held on trust () for the Security Agent to secure the Guarantor's liability hereunder, and upon request by the Security Agent the Guarantor will forthwith deposit such Security with the Security Agent or as it may direct or pay or transfer such monies or other property or assets to the Security Agent for application in or towards the discharge of the Guarantor's Liabilities.
Claims by Guarantor
treuhnderisch halten
 
The Guarantor will ensure that the Borrower complies with all its obligations under Clause 16 (), Clause 20 () (in particular, those under Clause 20.35 ()) and Clause 35 () of the Facility Agreement.
Costs and Expenses
General Undertakings
Subsidies
The Federal State Guarantee
 
The Security Agent may (in addition to any other right to which it may be entitled), if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or the Loans have been accelerated, without notice to the Guarantor or any other person, set-off and apply any credit balance (or any part thereof in such amounts as it may elect) on any account (whether such account is subject to notice or not and whether matured or not and in whatever currency) of the Guarantor with it and any other monies owing by it to the Guarantor against any liabilities (whether present or future, actual or contingent) of the Guarantor to it, and it may purchase with the monies standing to the credit of any such account such other currencies as may be necessary for this purpose.
 
Neither Agent is obliged to furnish to the Guarantor any information in respect of the Facility Agreement and/or the Guarantor's Liabilities.
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax, letter or telex.
 
The address, fax number and telex number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of the Guarantor, the Security Agent and the Facility Agent for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any substitute address, fax number, telex number or department or officer as the Guarantor may notify to an Agent (or an Agent may notify to the Guarantor, if a change is made by such Agent) by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice.
 
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause 16.2 (), if addressed to that department or officer.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor confirms that it has taken, and will continue to take, all necessary steps to ensure that any amount claimed by an Agent from it hereunder can be transferred to it immediately, free of any deduction, cost or charges whatsoever.
 
If, at any time, any provision of this Guarantee Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
No amendment or modification of or to any provision of this Guarantee Agreement, including, without limitation, this Clause 19, shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by or on behalf of each party hereto.
 
This Guarantee Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties to this Guarantee Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
 
The Guarantor shall not assign or otherwise transfer the benefit of this Guarantee Agreement or any of its rights, duties or obligations under this Guarantee Agreement without the prior written consent of the Security Agent.
 
Each Agent may assign or transfer all or any part of the benefits of this Guarantee Agreement and any of its rights, duties and obligations under this Guarantee Agreement without the consent of the Guarantor and for such purposes each Agent may disclose, in accordance with the terms of the Facility Agreement, to a potential assignee or transferee such information about the Guarantor, this Guarantee Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement as it considers appropriate.
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall remain binding on the Guarantor notwithstanding any change in the constitution of an Agent, the Guarantor or the Borrower or its absorption in, amalgamation with or merger into, or the acquisition of all or part of its undertaking by any other person, to the intent that the security created by this Guarantee Agreement shall remain valid and effective in all respects in favour of any assignee or successor in title of an Agent in the same manner as if such assignee or successor in title had been named as a party to this Guarantee Agreement instead of, or in addition to, such Agent and (as the case may be) on or in respect of the obligations and liabilities of any successor entity to the Guarantor or the Borrower in the same manner as if such successor entity had been named in this Guarantee Agreement instead of, or in addition to, the Guarantor or the Borrower respectively.
 
 
 
 
This Guarantee Agreement is governed by German law.
 
 
The District Court of Frankfurt am Main has exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Guarantee Agreement).
 
The Guarantor irrevocably appoints the Borrower of Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany as its agent to receive and acknowledge on its behalf service of any writ, summons, order, judgment or other notice of legal process in Germany. If for any reason the agent named above (or its successor) no longer serves as agent of the Guarantor for this purpose, the Guarantor shall promptly appoint a successor agent approved by the Agents and notify both Agents thereof. Until an Agent receives such notification, it shall be entitled to treat the agent named above (or its said successor) as the agent of the Guarantor for the purposes of this Clause. The Guarantor agrees that any such legal process shall be sufficiently served on it if delivered to such agent for service at its address for the time being in Germany whether or not such agent gives notice thereof to the Guarantor.
This Guarantee Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
Guarantee agreement dated 21 April 2004 (the "Guarantee Agreement")
 
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, we confirm that the financial covenants set out in Clause 12 () [] been complied with during the period in question.
Financial Covenants
have/have not
 
 
Signed:
                                                 
[[Chief Financial Officer]/[Director of Treasury]/[Treasurer]]
of
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
 
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
Guarantee agreement dated 21 April 2004 (the "Guarantee Agreement")
 
 
 
 
 
 
[
name of duly authorised officer
]
of
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
:
Attachment
Monthly report containing unaudited Group cash balances.
*
 
 
The Guarantor
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
The Borrower
AMD FAB 36 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY & CO. KG
 
The Security Agent
DRESDNER BANK AG in BERLIN
 
The Facility Agent
DRESDNER BANK AG, NIEDERLASSUNG LUXEMBURG
 
 
AMD FAB 36 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY & CO. KG
 
AMD FAB 36 HOLDING GMBH
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
THE MANDATED LEAD ARRANGERS
ABN AMRO BANK N.V.
 
COMMERZBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
 
DEUTSCHE BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
 
 
DRESDNER KLEINWORT,
THE INVESTMENT BANKING DIVISION OF DRESDNER BANK AG
 
KFW
 
LANDESBANK HESSEN-THRINGEN GIROZENTRALE
 
LANDESBANK SACHSEN GIROZENTRALE
 
THE FACILITY AGENT
DRESDNER BANK AG, NIEDERLASSUNG LUXEMBURG
 
THE SECURITY AGENT AND REPORTING AGENT
DRESDNER BANK AG IN BERLIN
 
THE LENDERS
ABN AMRO BANK N.V., NIEDERLASSUNG DEUTSCHLAND
 
ALLIED IRISH BANK PLC
 
BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK
 
BHF-BANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
 
COMMERZBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
 
DEUTSCHE BANK AG, LONDON
 
DEUTSCHE BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
 
DRESDNER BANK AG in BERLIN
 
DZ BANK AG
 
HVB BANQUE LUXEMBOURG SOCIETE ANONYME
 
IKB INTERNATIONAL S.A.
 
KBC BANK DEUTSCHLAND AG
 
KFW
 
LANDESBANK BADEN-WRTTEMBERG
 
LANDESBANK HESSEN-THRINGEN GIROZENTRALE
 
LANDESBANK RHEINLAND-PFALZ
 
LANDESBANK SACHSEN GIROZENTRALE
 
NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES, ZWEIGNIEDERLASSUNG DEUTSCHLAND
 
NRW BANK
 


