FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20061201133751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
.
On November 30, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. issued a press release announcing it has received a subpoena from the Department of Justice ("DOJ") Antitrust Division in connection with the DOJ's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to graphics processors and cards. A copy of the press release is filed as hereto, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) has received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Antitrust Division in connection with the DOJ's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to graphics processors and cards. AMD entered the graphics processor business following the company's acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc. last month (October 25, 2006). The DOJ has not made any specific allegations against AMD or ATI. AMD intends to cooperate with the investigation.
SUNNYVALE, CALIF.  November 30, 2006 
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit .
www.amd.com
AMD and the AMD Arrow logo are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


