FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20061018164020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On October 18, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended October 1, 2006 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the text of the press release.
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. In the earnings release for the quarter ended October 1, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In quarters prior to March 26, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In the earnings release prior periods have been restated to conform to the presentation of the current quarter. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
99.1         Press Release dated October 18, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported sales of $1.33 billion, operating income of $119 million, and net income of $134 million, or $0.27 per share, for the quarter ended October 1, 2006. These results include $16.5 million of employee stock-based compensation expense.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Oct. 18, 2006 
In the third quarter of 2005, excluding the Memory Products segment
1
, AMD reported sales of $1.01 billion and operating income of $129 million. In the second quarter of 2006, AMD reported sales of $1.22 billion and operating income of $102 million.
 
"Third quarter sales increased nine percent from the prior quarter, and 32 percent year-over-year, due to strong demand for all AMD processor brands," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Microprocessor unit shipments grew 18 percent sequentially as customers continued leveraging AMD's open platform approach. Demand for AMD Turion 64 mobile processors was especially strong, resulting in record mobile processor sales and unit shipments coupled with increased
 
 
average selling prices (ASPs). Record AMD Opteron processor sales resulted from continued adoption of dual core processors, record unit shipments and improved ASPs."
Desktop processor sales were flat sequentially with increased unit shipments offset by decreased ASPs.
AMD continued to successfully ramp production in both Fab 36 and Chartered Semiconductor. The conversion to 65 nanometer production in Fab 36 is on track, with revenue shipments planned for the fourth quarter.
Third quarter gross margin was 51.4 percent, compared to 56.8 percent in the second quarter of 2006 and 55.4 percent in the third quarter of 2005. The gross margin decrease was largely due to lower desktop processor ASPs which caused a decline in overall processor ASPs.
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations and exclude ATI operations and ATI acquisition-related charges. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects demand for its products to be seasonally strong in the fourth quarter and sales to increase sequentially.
AMD TELECONFERENCE
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PDT today to discuss third quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
ABOUT AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative microprocessor solutions for computing, communications and consumer electronics markets. Founded in 1969, AMD is dedicated to delivering superior computing solutions based on customer needs that empower users worldwide. For more information visit www.amd.com
.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning sales for the fourth quarter of 2006, AMD's technology and capacity introduction schedule and the timing of the completion of the planned acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's current expectations. Risks include the possibility that competitors, customers and suppliers of AMD or ATI may take actions that may negate the impact of the anticipated benefits of AMD's acquisition of ATI; revenue, cost savings, growth prospects and any or other synergies expected from the planned acquisition will not be fully realized or will take longer to realize than expected; the planned acquisition will not be accretive as expected; the company will not achieve any year-end or longer-term targeted gross margins, research and development expenses, selling, general or administrative expenses, operating margins, capital structure or debt-to-capitalization ratio; there will be delays associated with integrating the companies, including employees and operations, after the planned acquisition is completed; goodwill and other long-lived assets resulting from the planned acquisition and the resulting impact on the company's assets and earnings will be impaired; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the fourth quarter of 2006 and beyond; Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current sales plans; demand for computers and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; the company will not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; the company will require additional capital and will not be able to raise sufficient capital, on favorable terms or at all; the company will not be
 
able to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; solutions providers will not provide the infrastructure to support the company's AMD64 technology in a timely fashion; and unfavorable results of operations of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on From 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2005 and AMD's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2006.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron , AMD Turion, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion is a trademark of Spansion, Inc. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding.


