FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20060720165209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On July 20, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal quarter and six months ended July 2, 2006 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. In the earnings release for the quarter ended July 2, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In quarters prior to March 26, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In this earnings release, prior periods have been restated to conform to the presentation of the current quarter. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported sales of $1.22 billion, operating income of $102 million, and net income of $89 million, or $0.18 per share, for the quarter ended July 2, 2006. These results include $18 million of employee stock-based compensation expense and a net gain of $10 million associated with Spansion LLC.'s repurchase of its 12.75 percent senior subordinated notes.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 20, 2006 
In the second quarter of 2005, excluding the Memory Products segment
1
, AMD reported sales of $797 million and operating income of $83 million. In the first quarter of 2006, AMD reported sales of $1.33 billion and operating income of $259 million.
 
"While we achieved 53 percent year-over-year sales growth and recorded our twelfth consecutive quarter of greater than 20 percent year-over-year microprocessor sales growth, we are dissatisfied by not reaching our second quarter sales target," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer.
"We are particularly pleased with the continued adoption of AMD solutions in the commercial segment. In particular, AMD Opteron processor sales grew 26 percent sequentially and we believe we gained server processor market share in the quarter. Sales to our largest global customers grew quarter-over-quarter as we continued to successfully execute our strategy. Sales through the distribution channel were down, primarily because we chose not to participate in certain deeply-discounted opportunities.
 
 
"Second quarter manufacturing execution was outstanding, with Fab 36 ramping 300mm capacity aggressively at mature yields. In addition, Chartered Semiconductor is now in production of AMD products."
Second quarter sales were down from the prior quarter primarily due to the challenging pricing environment for high-volume desktop processors which negatively impacted average selling prices (ASPs). Total microprocessor unit shipments were down four percent sequentially.
Record AMD Opteron processor sales were driven by growing demand for single- and multi-socket server and workstation solutions. AMD Opteron processor unit shipments experienced double digit percentage growth quarter-over-quarter, and the sequential ASP percentage increase was in the single digits.
Second quarter gross margin was 56.8 percent, compared to 58.5 percent in the first quarter of 2006. The gross margin decrease was largely due to lower desktop processor ASPs. Operating income was $102 million in the second quarter, up from $83 million in the second quarter of 2005 and down from $259 million in the first quarter of 2006. The decline in operating income from the prior quarter was due largely to lower sales and increased operating expenses related to an extra week of operations in the quarter, and marketing expenses in support of the company's long-term goals to acquire new customers, expand business with existing customers, and increase commercial sales.
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
AMD expects demand for its products to be seasonally strong in the second half of 2006, and we expect third quarter sales to increase sequentially.
AMD TELECONFERENCE
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. PDT today to discuss second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
ABOUT AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative microprocessor solutions for computing, communications and consumer electronics markets. Founded in 1969, AMD is dedicated to delivering superior computing solutions based on customer needs that empower users worldwide. For more information visit
www.amd.com.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning sales for the third quarter of 2006, AMD's Torrenza initiative and AMD's manufacturing capacity expansion plans, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the third quarter of 2006 and beyond; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's microprocessor business will prevent attainment of the company's current microprocessor sales plans; that demand for computers and, in turn, demand for the company's microprocessors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not continue to occur as expected; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; that the company will not be able to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; that solutions providers will not provide the infrastructure to support the company's AMD64 technology in a timely fashion; and that unfavorable results of operations of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations. We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2005 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2006.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Geode, AMD Turion, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion is a trademark of Spansion, Inc. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
 
 
 
Note: Figures may not foot due to rounding


