FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20060412165119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On April 12, 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results of operations and financial position as of and for fiscal quarter ended March 26, 2006 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
EBITDA is presented in the earnings release. In the earnings release for the quarter ended March 26, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In previous quarters, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In the earnings release prior periods have been restated to conform to the presentation of the current quarter. Although EBITDA is not a GAAP financial measure, it is calculated and communicated by the Company because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP measures of net income as a measure of performance, or cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows. Management does not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
For the fourth quarter for 2005, the Company has also presented non-GAAP pro forma financial information to exclude the results of operations of its Memory Products segment and Spansion Inc. (formerly Spansion LLC), its former majority-owned subsidiary which completed its initial public offering (IPO) on December 21, 2005, as well as the non-cash charge on disposition of equity interest in Spansion Inc. As a result of the IPO, the Company's financial results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2005 include Spansion's results only through December 20, 2005. Moreover, the Company's ownership in Spansion was reduced from 60 percent to approximately 37.9 percent and therefore the Company no longer consolidates Spansion's results of operations in the Company's financial results, but instead utilizes the equity method of accounting to reflect its proportionate share of Spansion's net income (loss). AMD has provided a non-GAAP statement of operations for the fourth quarter of 2005 that excludes Spansion and the Memory Products segment results of operations to allow a comparison to the GAAP statement of operations for the quarter ended March 26, 2006. Management believes this presentation will aid investors by presenting the company's current and historical results in a form that will be more consistent with the presentation of future operating results. The Company has provided reconciliation within the press release to reconcile the non-GAAP financial data to the most directly comparable GAAP financials.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported sales of $1.33 billion, operating income of $259 million, and net income of $185 million, or $0.38 per share for the quarter ended March 26, 2006. These results include a stock-based compensation expense of $15 million due to the implementation of SFAS 123(R) and an expense of $20 million associated with the partial redemption of senior notes.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  April 12, 2006 
In the first quarter of 2005, excluding the Memory Products segment
1
, AMD reported sales of $780 million and operating income of $64 million. In the fourth quarter of 2005, AMD reported sales of $1.35 billion and operating income of $268 million.
 
"AMD had another great quarter," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "Building on our positive momentum, we believe we once again gained dollar market share based on strong customer demand for AMD64 single and multi-core processors. We expanded our global customer base in the quarter, achieved record AMD Opteron processor sales, increased our average selling price (ASP), and realized year-over-year sales growth of 71 percent. Our manufacturing strategy execution was excellent and our technology transitions remain on track, with 65nm production shipments expected in the second half of 2006.
 
 
"We also continued to execute against our plans to improve our balance sheet. We had a successful equity offering, reduced debt and lowered our debt-to-capital ratio to 12 percent
2
."
First quarter gross margin increased to a record 58.5 percent, compared to 57.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. The increase was largely due to product mix improvement, higher desktop and mobile ASPs, and manufacturing efficiencies. Operating income was $259 million in the first quarter, up from $64 million in the first quarter of 2005 and down slightly from $268 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Solid first quarter sales were driven by ASP improvements from the prior quarter and increasing customer adoption of AMD's server, mobile and desktop offerings in the commercial segment. Record AMD Opteron processor sales were driven, in particular, by strong demand for dual-core processors for servers and workstations. Shipments of AMD Turion 64 mobile processors also increased quarter-on-quarter. Geographically, processor sales were especially strong in Greater China, Latin America, Russia and South Asia.
ADDITIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT OUTLOOK
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions.
AMD expects second quarter sales to be flat to slightly down seasonally from the first quarter of 2006. If achieved, this would approximate a 65 percent increase from comparable sales in the second quarter of 2005.
AMD TELECONFERENCE
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:30 p.m. US PDT today to discuss first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time
 
audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
ABOUT AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative microprocessor solutions for computing, communications and consumer electronics markets. Founded in 1969, AMD is dedicated to delivering superior computing solutions based on customer needs that empower users worldwide. For more information visit .
www.amd.com
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning future periods of 2006, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements in this release involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's current expectations. Risks include the possibility that global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected sales in the second quarter of 2006; that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing programs, product bundling, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's microprocessor business will prevent attainment of the company's current microprocessor sales plans; that demand for computers and, in turn, demand for the company's microprocessors will be lower than currently expected; that adoption of AMD64 products by OEMs will not continue to occur as expected; that the company may not achieve its current product and technology introduction schedules; that the company will not be able to raise sufficient capital to enable it to establish leading-edge capacity to maintain its market leadership positions; that the company will not be able to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; that solutions providers will not provide the infrastructure to support the company's AMD64 technology in a timely fashion; and that unfavorable results of operation of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations.
 
We urge investors to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2005.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Athlon, AMD Opteron, AMD Sempron, AMD Turion, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Spansion is a trademark of Spansion, Inc. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Thousands)
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
 
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
RECONCILIATION OF NON GAAP PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS TO GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 25, 2005 (Note A)
COMPARED TO GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 26, 2006
(Thousands except per share amounts)
 
Notes to the Reconciliation Adjustments:
 


