FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20071018162604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On October 18, 2007, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for the quarter ended September 29, 2007 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss), the Company excluded certain charges related to its acquisition and integration of ATI Technologies, Inc. ("ATI") which closed on October 24, 2006 and charges related to severance payments for workforce reductions. Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based of the following:
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative on ongoing performance. Consequently, the Company excluded the effect of these charges from its GAAP operating income (loss). Acquisition-related and integration charges primarily consist of the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and other charges incurred in connection with integrating the two companies. The severance charges relate to costs incurred for workforce reductions as a result of the Company's cost cutting efforts. The Company believes that the exclusion of these amounts enables investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Acquisition-related, integration and severance charges
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the financial schedules to the earnings release. In the financial schedules, Adjusted EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization, and then, due to the significant expenses incurred in connection with the ATI acquisition, for the quarters ended September 29, 2007 and June 30, 2007, further adjusting EBITDA for the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures.
The Company provided non-GAAP operating income (loss) in the press release to reflect the results without acquisition-related and integration charges in connection with its acquisition
of ATI and charges related to severance payments for workforce reductions. The Company's management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting current and historical results in a form that makes it easier to compare current period operating results with historical operating results.
The Company calculated and communicated Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP operating measure of net income or U.S. GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported third quarter 2007 revenue of $1.632 billion, an 18 percent increase compared to the second quarter of 2007 and a 23 percent improvement compared to the third quarter of 2006
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Oct. 18, 2007 
1
. In the third quarter, AMD reported an operating loss of $226 million, and a net loss of $396 million, or $0.71 per share. Third quarter results include a negative impact of $120 million, or $0.22 per share, due to ATI acquisition-related, integration and severance charges and impairment of assets. In the second quarter of 2007, AMD reported revenue of $1.378 billion and an operating loss of $457 million. In the third quarter of 2006, AMD reported revenue of $1.328 billion and operating income of $121 million.
"We are encouraged by the progress we made in our third quarter financial results. We delivered a strong revenue increase, gained 8 percentage points of gross margin and reduced our operating loss by more than half," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's Chief Financial Officer. "We sold a record number of microprocessors through our distribution channel and began revenue shipments of Quad-core AMD Opteron processors in the quarter.
"Graphics segment revenue increased 29 percent sequentially, as customers increasingly adopted AMD's new ATI Radeon HD 2000 series of graphics processors."
Third quarter charges of $120 million consisted of ATI acquisition-related, integration and severance charges of $78 million and asset impairments of $42 million associated with our ownership of Spansion, Inc. common stock.
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2007 gross margin was 41 percent, compared to 33 percent in the second quarter of 2007 and 51 percent in the third quarter of 2006. The increase from the prior quarter was due to increased microprocessor unit shipments, manufacturing efficiencies, improved inventory management, and a richer product mix in the Computing Solutions and Graphics segments.
Computing Solutions
Third quarter Computing Solutions segment revenue was $1.283 billion, a 17 percent sequential increase. The increase was driven primarily by a 19 percent increase in microprocessor revenue. Microprocessor unit shipments increased 16 percent sequentially. Mobile processor unit shipment growth remained strong, increasing 41 percent sequentially and 68 percent year-over-year.
Graphics
Graphics segment revenue of $252 million grew 29 percent from the second quarter of 2007. The success of the new ATI Radeon HD 2000 series of graphics processors led to increased unit shipments and revenue.
Consumer Electronics
Third quarter Consumer Electronics segment revenue was $97 million, compared with $85 million in the second quarter of 2007 driven by improved handheld unit sales and increased game console royalties.
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
In the seasonally up fourth quarter, AMD expects revenue to increase in line with seasonality.
Additional Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss third quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its web site at
www.amd.com
. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
 
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit
www.amd.com
.
Cautionary Statement
This release contains a forward-looking statement concerning revenue for the fourth quarter of 2007 which is made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; the company's cost reduction efforts will not be effective; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for its products; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company's competitors, customers and suppliers may take actions that will negate the anticipated benefits of the company's acquisition of ATI; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the fourth quarter of 2007 and beyond; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way, consistent with planned capital expenditures; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or
 
 
components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, and Radeon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
 
 
 


