FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20070823060810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
In a media advisory issued on August 22, 2007, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Henri P. Richard, the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer, has decided to resign from his position with the Company, effective September 2007. The full text of the media advisory is attached hereto as and is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Media Advisory
Contact:
Eric DeRitis
AMD Global Communications
408-749-2919
eric.deritis@amd.com
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today announced that Chief Sales and Marketing Officer Henri Richard is leaving the company in September 2007. Mr. Richard departs AMD of his own accord and on completely amicable terms.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  August 22, 2007 
"Henri's primary goal at AMD has been to construct a world-class global sales and marketing organization focused on enduring relationships with major PC and server OEMs around the world. He delivered on that goal," said AMD Chairman and CEO Hector Ruiz. "AMD is fully focused on leveraging the momentum we established during the last five years to achieve even greater levels of success ahead."
The AMD global sales and marketing organization will now report into the office of the CEO.
"After 20 years in the PC industry  and five of the most professionally rewarding years here at AMD  I have decided to make a move to a different business segment," Mr. Richard said. "I am leaving AMD at a time when the company is in position to break the monopoly that plagues this industry. I am immensely proud of my contribution to AMD, and in particular, of the strong team I leave behind."
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit .
www.amd.com
AMD and the AMD Arrow logo are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names used are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


