FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20070419164023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On April 19, 2007, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin and adjusted EBITDA.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP gross margin, the Company excluded stock-based compensation expense and certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to its acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc. which closed on October 24, 2006. Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based of the following items:
: Non-GAAP gross margin and operating income (loss) exclude stock-based compensation expenses. The Company adopted FASB Statement No. 123R, Share-Based Payments, on December 26, 2005, which requires that share-based payments, including employee stock options, be measured at their fair value and recorded as compensation expense in the Company's financial statements. Prior to the adoption of Statement 123R, the Company was required to record stock-based compensation expense using the awards' intrinsic value which generally resulted in no compensation expense being recorded in the financial statements. In accordance with the modified prospective method the Company used to adopt Statement 123R, the Company's financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, changes in the method to expense share-based payments, including employee stock options, at their fair values. Starting from the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company's management no longer considers this non-cash expense in evaluating the business performance of the Company's operating segments.
Stock-based compensation expense
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative on ongoing performance. Consequently, the Company excluded the effect of these charges from its GAAP operating income (loss) and gross margin. Acquisition-related and integration charges primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, the cost of the fair value adjustment of acquired inventory and other charges incurred in connection with integrating the two companies. The Company believes that the exclusion of these amounts enables investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Acquisition-related and integration charges
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the financial schedules to the earnings release. In the financial schedules, Adjusted EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization, and then, due to the significant expenses incurred in connection with the ATI acquisition, further adjusting EBITDA for in-process research and development charge and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. For each of the three quarters in the periods ended October 1, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In quarters prior to March 26, 2006, EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest income, interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization. In the earnings release prior periods have been restated to conform to the presentation of the current quarter.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures.
The Company provided non-GAAP operating income (loss) and gross margin financial measures in the press release to reflect the results without acquisition-related and integration charges and employee stock-based compensation expense. The Company's management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting current and historical results in a form that makes it easier to compare current period operating results with historical operating results.
The Company calculated and communicated Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP operating measure of net income or U.S. GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  April 19, 2007 
1
. AMD reported first quarter 2007 revenue of $1.233 billion, an operating loss of $504 million, and a net loss of $611 million, or $1.11 per share. These results include ATI acquisition-related and integration charges of $113 million, or $0.21 per share, and employee stock-based compensation expense of $28 million, or $0.05 per share. In the fourth quarter of 2006, AMD reported revenue of $1.773 billion and an operating loss of $529 million. In the first quarter of 2006, AMD reported revenue of $1.332 billion and operating income of $259 million.
 
"After more than three years of successfully executing our customer expansion strategy and significantly growing our unit and revenue base, our first quarter performance is disappointing and unacceptable," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "We are aggressively addressing the issues that led to our significant revenue decline. We are aligning our business model, capital expenditures and cost structure with the goal of accelerating our return to profitability. Lastly, our customer relationships remain solid, reflecting their confidence in our strategic direction, current and new products, and technology roadmaps."
First quarter 2007 gross margin was 31 percent, excluding stock-based compensation expense and acquisition-related charges, compared to 40 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 59 percent in the first quarter of 2006. The decrease from the prior quarter was largely due to significantly lower microprocessor unit shipments, lower microprocessor average selling prices (ASPs), and the inclusion of the former ATI operations, which generally have lower-margin products, for the entire quarter.
 
Computing Solutions
The Computing Solutions segment includes what the company previously called the Computation Products and Embedded Products segments as well as the chipset business acquired with ATI. First quarter Computing Solutions segment revenue was $918 million, including a full quarter of ATI chipset revenues. The 38 percent sequential decline was primarily due to significantly lower microprocessor unit sales and lower microprocessor ASPs. Year-over-year server and desktop processor unit shipments and revenues declined significantly, while mobile processor unit shipments and revenue increased significantly.
Graphics
First quarter Graphics segment revenue of $197 million increased 19 percent from the fourth quarter of 2006, primarily due to a full quarter of operations.
 
Consumer Electronics
Consumer Electronics segment revenue, including a full quarter of operations, was down sequentially to $118 million. On a full quarter comparative basis, video processor unit shipments into the digital TV market increased in the seasonally down quarter while handheld processor unit shipments and game console revenue decreased.
Additional Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
 
In the seasonally down second quarter, AMD expects revenue to be flat to slightly up.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit www.amd.com.
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning revenue for the second quarter of 2007 and potential actions that the company may take to better align its business model, cost structure and capital expenditures, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product
 
bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; the company's competitors, customers and suppliers may take actions that will negate the anticipated benefits of the company's acquisition of ATI; there will be delays associated with integrating ATI's operations; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the second quarter of 2007 and beyond; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way, consistent with planned capital expenditures; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market at mature yields and on a timely basis; that the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or the under-utilization of its microprocessor manufacturing facilities; and unfavorable results of operations of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on From 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Turion, AMD Athlon, and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, Radeon and Imageon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Windows Vista is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
ATI acquisition-related and integration charges:
 
Employee stock-based compensation expense:
 
 
 


