FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20070719162935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On July 19, 2007, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin and adjusted EBITDA.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP gross margin, the Company excluded stock-based compensation expense, certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to its acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc. ("ATI") which closed on October 24, 2006 and charges related to severance payments for workforce reductions. Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based of the following items:
: Non-GAAP gross margin and operating income (loss) exclude stock-based compensation expenses. The Company adopted FASB Statement No. 123R, Share-Based Payments, on December 26, 2005, which requires that share-based payments, including employee stock options, be measured at their fair value and recorded as compensation expense in the Company's financial statements. Prior to the adoption of Statement 123R, the Company was required to record stock-based compensation expense using the awards' intrinsic value which generally resulted in no compensation expense being recorded in the financial statements. In accordance with the modified prospective method the Company used to adopt Statement 123R, the Company's financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, changes in the method to expense share-based payments, including employee stock options, at their fair values. Starting from the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company's management no longer considers this non-cash expense in evaluating the business performance of the Company's operating segments.
Stock-based compensation expense
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative on ongoing performance. Consequently, the Company excluded the effect of these charges from its GAAP operating income (loss) and gross margin. Acquisition-related and integration charges primarily consist of the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and other charges incurred in connection with integrating the two companies. The severance charges relate to costs
Acquisition-related, integration and severance charges
incurred for workforce reductions as a result of the Company's cost cutting efforts. The Company believes that the exclusion of these amounts enables investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the financial schedules to the earnings release. In the financial schedules, Adjusted EBITDA was determined by adjusting net income (loss) for interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization, and then, due to the significant expenses incurred in connection with the ATI acquisition, for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2007, further adjusting EBITDA for the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures.
The Company provided non-GAAP operating income (loss) and gross margin financial measures in the press release to reflect the results without employee stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related and integration charges in connection with its acquisition of ATI and charges related to severance payments for workforce reductions. The Company's management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting current and historical results in a form that makes it easier to compare current period operating results with historical operating results.
The Company calculated and communicated Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP operating measure of net income or U.S. GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
AMD NEWS RELEASE
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 19, 2007 
1
. AMD reported second quarter 2007 revenue of $1.378 billion, an operating loss of $457 million, and a net loss of $600 million, or $1.09 per share. These results include an impact of $130 million, or $0.24 per share, from ATI acquisition-related and integration charges of $78 million, employee stock-based compensation expense of $31 million, severance charges of $16 million and debt issuance charges of $5 million. In the first quarter of 2007, AMD reported revenue of $1.233 billion and an operating loss of $504 million. In the second quarter of 2006, AMD reported revenue of $1.216 billion and operating income of $102 million.
 
 
"While we made solid progress in the second quarter across a number of fronts, we must improve our financial results," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's Chief Financial Officer. "We achieved a 12 percent sequential revenue increase, improved the gross margin and won back microprocessor unit and revenue market share. Strong distribution channel demand, initial sales to Toshiba, and a broader adoption of AMD platforms led to a 38 percent sequential increase in microprocessor unit shipments. In addition, our Graphics business gained momentum at the end of the quarter as we began shipping the new ATI Radeon HD 2000 family of graphics processors.
"We continue to focus on realigning our business model and reducing our capital expenditures and cost structure in the second half of the year."
Second quarter 2007 gross margin was 34 percent, excluding stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related and severance charges, compared to 31 percent in the first quarter of 2007 and 57 percent in the second quarter of 2006. The increase from the prior quarter was largely due to increased microprocessor unit shipments. The second quarter gross margin was impacted by a write-off of older microprocessor inventory of approximately $30 million.
 
Computing Solutions
Second quarter Computing Solutions segment revenue was $1.098 billion, compared with $918 million in the first quarter of 2007. The 20 percent sequential increase was primarily due to a 38 percent increase in microprocessor unit shipments, offset partially by lower average selling prices (ASPs) for desktop microprocessors. Second quarter server, mobile, and desktop microprocessor revenue increased sequentially. Mobile processor unit shipments increased 21 percent sequentially and 82 percent year-over-year.
 
 
Graphics
In the seasonally down second quarter, Graphics segment revenue of $195 million was flat from the first quarter of 2007. Initial sales of the ATI Radeon HD 2000 family of graphics processors were strong in the channel, and design win momentum with key mobile and desktop OEMs continues to grow.
Consumer Electronics
Second quarter Consumer Electronics segment revenue was $85 million, compared with $118 million in the first quarter of 2007. The sequential revenue decline of 28 percent was largely the result of lower handheld unit sales and revenue, partially offset by increased digital TV processor revenue.
Additional Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
In the seasonally up third quarter, AMD expects revenue to increase in line with seasonality.
 
 
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit www.amd.com.
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning revenue for the third quarter of 2007, timing of new product releases, product features and performance characteristics and planned reductions in capital expenditures and cost structure, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; the company's cost reduction efforts will not be effective; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for its products; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company's competitors, customers and suppliers may take
 
 
actions that will negate the anticipated benefits of the company's acquisition of ATI; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the third quarter of 2007 and beyond; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way, consistent with planned capital expenditures; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or the under-utilization of its microprocessor manufacturing facilities; and unfavorable results of operations of Spansion will adversely impact the company's results of operations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Turion, AMD Athlon, and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, Radeon and Imageon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
ATI acquisition-related, integration and severance charges:
Employee stock-based compensation expense:
 
 
 


