FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20081022171240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2008, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "") describing the Master Transaction Agreement by and among the Company, Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi (""), and West Coast Hitech L.P., an exempted limited partnership organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, acting through its general partner, West Coast Hitech G.P., Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), pursuant to which ATIC and the Company will form a manufacturing joint venture, The Foundry Company, an exempted company to be incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). The Original 8-K also described the form of Shareholders' Agreement (the "") by and among the Company, ATIC and The Foundry Company, the form of Funding Agreement among the Company, ATIC and The Foundry Company (the ""), and the form of Wafer Supply Agreement between the Company and The Foundry Company (the ""), each to be entered in connection with closing of the transactions contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement. The Company is filing this Form 8-K/A to amend the Original 8-K by attaching each of the Master Transaction Agreement, the form of Shareholders' Agreement, the form of Funding Agreement and the form of Wafer Supply Agreement as exhibits to the Original 8-K.
Company
Original 8-K
ATIC
Master Transaction Agreement
The Foundry Company
Shareholders' Agreement
Funding Agreement
Wafer Supply Agreement
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A    DEFINED TERMS
 
 
MASTER TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, dated as of October 6, 2008, by and among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi (""), and West Coast Hitech L.P., an exempted limited partnership organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""), acting through its general partner, West Coast Hitech G.P., Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Discovery, Oyster and Pearl are sometimes referred to herein as the "," and each individually as a "."
Discovery
Oyster
Pearl
Parties
Party
WHEREAS, Discovery intends to form an exempted company under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("") to act as the holding company for a joint venture between Discovery and Oyster;
FoundryCo
WHEREAS, Discovery wishes to contribute or to cause its Subsidiaries to contribute to FoundryCo, and the Parties wish to cause FoundryCo to acquire from Discovery and its Subsidiaries, the FoundryCo Assets in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Discovery (or a Subsidiary of Discovery designated by Discovery prior to the Closing) of one (1) Class A Ordinary Share, one million six hundred eighty thousand three hundred fifty-five (1,680,355) Class A Preferred Shares, seven hundred thousand (700,000) Class B Preferred Shares, and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries;
WHEREAS, Oyster wishes (i) to contribute cash to FoundryCo in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Oyster of one (1) Class A Ordinary Share, three hundred thirty-six thousand seventy-one (336,071) Class A Preferred Shares, six hundred forty-four thousand two hundred eighty-four (644,284) Class B Preferred Shares, eighty-three million nine hundred twenty-nine thousand dollars ($83,929,000) aggregate principal amount of Class A Convertible Notes and three hundred thirty-five million seven hundred sixteen thousand dollars ($335,716,000) aggregate principal amount of Class B Convertible Notes; and (ii) to transfer cash to Discovery in consideration of the transfer by Discovery of seven hundred thousand (700,000) Class B Preferred Shares to Oyster; and
WHEREAS, Pearl wishes to contribute cash to Discovery in consideration of the issuance by Discovery to Pearl of the Discovery Shares and the Warrants.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings referred to or ascribed to such terms in .
Certain Defined Terms
Appendix A
SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise provided or that the context otherwise requires:
Interpretation and Rules of Construction
(a) when a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or a Schedule or Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;
(b) the table of contents and headings for this Agreement are for reference purposes only and do not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(c) whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(d) the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
(e) any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty contained in this Agreement as to the matters covered thereby;
(f) all terms defined in this Agreement have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein;
(g) the definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms;
(h) whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms;
(i) any Law defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such Law or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws, and any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
(j) any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days;
(k) references to a Person are also to its successors and permitted assigns; and
(l) the use of "or" is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise.
SECTION 2.01. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the Closing, Discovery shall contribute to the capital of, or cause its Subsidiaries to contribute to the capital of, FoundryCo, and the Parties shall cause FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries to receive from Discovery and its Subsidiaries, the FoundryCo Assets pursuant to the Deed of Contribution, the Assumption Agreement, any additional instruments of conveyance or assumption as may be required by local Laws, and such other documentation as may be necessary to effect such transaction, it being understood that Discovery shall not directly contribute to FoundryCo such of the FoundryCo Assets as shall be held by the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, but rather Discovery shall contribute such FoundryCo Assets to FoundryCo by transferring the ownership of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries to FoundryCo.
Contribution of FoundryCo Assets
(b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 2.01(a) to the contrary, the FoundryCo Assets shall exclude the Excluded Assets.
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the Closing, the Parties shall cause FoundryCo or one or more of its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver the Assumption Agreement, any additional instruments of conveyance or assumption as may be required by local Laws, and such other documentation as may be necessary to cause FoundryCo or one or more of its Subsidiaries to assume and agree to pay, perform and discharge the Assumed Liabilities.
Assumption and Exclusion of Liabilities
(b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 2.02(a) to the contrary, the Remaining Discovery Group shall retain, and shall be responsible for paying, performing and discharging when due, and the FoundryCo Group shall not assume or have any responsibility for, the Excluded Liabilities.
(c) On the Closing Date, or as promptly as practicable thereafter but in no event later than sixty (60) calendar days thereafter, the water, gas, electricity and other utilities, common area maintenance reimbursements to lessors, local business or other license or permit fees, insurance premiums and other periodic
 
charges payable with respect to the FoundryCo Assets shall be prorated between the Remaining Discovery Group and the FoundryCo Group, with the Remaining Discovery Group bearing such costs and expenses attributable to the period through and including the Closing Date and the FoundryCo Group bearing such costs and expenses attributable to the period after the Closing Date. The Parties shall thereafter correct any misallocation of such costs and expenses as they may discover from time to time in a manner consistent with this paragraph.
SECTION 2.03. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall take place at a closing (the "") to be held at the opening of business in London, England on the seventh (7
Closing
Closing
th
) Business Day following the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article XI hereof (the "") (other than those conditions that by their nature cannot be satisfied until the Closing Date, which shall be satisfied as of the Closing Date), or at such other date and time as the Parties may mutually agree in writing.
Closing Date
SECTION 2.04. .
Closing Deliveries by Discovery
(a) . At the Closing, Discovery shall deliver or cause to be delivered to FoundryCo or one or more of its Subsidiaries, as applicable (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Discovery to FoundryCo
Discovery FoundryCo Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . At the Closing, Discovery shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Oyster or its designee (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Discovery to Oyster
Discovery Oyster Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
(c) . At the Closing, Discovery shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Pearl or its designee (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Discovery to Pearl
Discovery Pearl Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.05. .
Closing Deliveries by FoundryCo
(a) . At the Closing, the Parties shall cause FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, to deliver to Discovery or its Subsidiaries, as applicable (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by FoundryCo to Discovery
FoundryCo Discovery Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . At the Closing, the Parties shall cause FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, to deliver to Oyster or its Subsidiaries, as applicable (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by FoundryCo to Oyster
FoundryCo Oyster Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.06. . . At the Closing, Oyster shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Discovery (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Oyster
Closing Deliveries by Oyster to Discovery
Oyster Discovery Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
(b) . At the Closing, Oyster shall deliver or cause to be delivered to FoundryCo (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Oyster to FoundryCo
Oyster FoundryCo Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.07. . At the Closing, Pearl shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Discovery (such instruments, collectively, the ""):
Closing Deliveries by Pearl to Discovery
Pearl Discovery Closing Deliverables
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.08. . The Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment at or after the Closing as specified herein:
Adjustment of Purchase Price
(a) . As promptly as practicable, but in any event within ninety (90) calendar days following the Closing, FoundryCo shall deliver to Discovery and Oyster the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets, together with a statement of the chief financial officer of FoundryCo (or, if FoundryCo shall not have a chief financial officer, a statement of such other senior executive officer responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of FoundryCo) certifying that the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets fairly presents FoundryCo's Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets at the Closing in accordance with the Statement of Principles for Initial Valuation Net Tangible
Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets
 
Assets included on Schedule 2.08. During the preparation of the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets, and during the period for resolution of disputes set forth in Section 2.08(b), Discovery, Oyster and their respective representatives (including their independent accountants) shall have the right to review FoundryCo's, Discovery's, and any of their respective consolidated Subsidiaries' books and records, accounting policies, internal controls processes, and other information relevant to the preparation of the Reference Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets or the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets. In connection with such review, each of FoundryCo and Discovery agrees that it will reasonably cooperate and cause its respective Subsidiaries to reasonably cooperate with Oyster, and in the case of FoundryCo, with Discovery, and the respective representatives of Oyster and Discovery, as the case may be, to provide all such requested information, and to make available during normal business hours FoundryCo's, Discovery's and their respective Subsidiaries' management and employees, in each case as reasonably deemed necessary and appropriate by Discovery or Oyster or their respective representatives in order to perform such review.
(b) . (i) Subject to clause (ii) of this Section 2.08(b), the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets delivered by FoundryCo to Discovery and Oyster shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties hereto.
Disputes
 
 
 
 
(c) . The Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets shall be deemed final for the purposes of this Section 2.08 upon the earliest of (x) the failure of Discovery or Oyster to notify the other Party of a dispute within thirty (30) Business Days of FoundryCo's delivery of the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets to Discovery and Oyster, (y) the resolution of all disputes, pursuant to Section 2.08(b)(ii), by Discovery and Oyster, and (z) the resolution of all disputes, pursuant to Section 2.08(b)(ii), by the Independent Accounting Firm. Subject to the limitation set forth in Section 2.08(b)(iv), within three (3) Business Days of the Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets being deemed final, a Purchase Price adjustment shall be made as follows:
Purchase Price Adjustment
 
 
 
 
(d) . In the event that Discovery fails to deliver the Make Whole Consent or the Make Whole Payment at or prior to Closing, or in the event that at any time prior to, at or after the Closing, FoundryCo shall pay any Conveyance Taxes, then at Closing, or in the case of Conveyance Taxes paid after Closing, promptly after each payment by FoundryCo of such Conveyance Taxes, FoundryCo shall issue to Oyster an additional Class A Convertible Note and an additional Class B Convertible Note (in the same proportion, by principal amount, as the Class A Convertible Note and the Class B Convertible Note issued to Oyster at Closing in consideration of the payment of the Oyster/FoundryCo Cash Consideration) with aggregate principal amounts equal to the amount of such (i) payment or payments of Conveyance Taxes (if any) made by FoundryCo plus (ii) the amount, if any, of the value of the Make Whole Payment (or that portion thereof unpaid at Closing).
Adjustment on Certain Other Events
Except as set forth in the appropriate Section of the Disclosure Schedule (provided that any information disclosed under any Section of the Disclosure Schedule shall be deemed disclosed and incorporated into any other Section thereof where it is reasonably apparent that such disclosure is relevant to such other Section), as an inducement to each of Oyster and Pearl to enter into this Agreement, Discovery hereby represents and warrants to each of Oyster and Pearl, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing (unless expressly stated to be made as of another time or for another period), as follows:
SECTION 3.01. . Discovery has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all necessary corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Discovery is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, except where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, (a) materially and adversely affect the ability of Discovery to carry out its obligations under or consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or (b) otherwise result in a Discovery Material Adverse Effect or a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect.
Organization, Authority and Qualification of Discovery
SECTION 3.02. . Each of Discovery's Subsidiaries has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (to the extent such concept is recognized in such jurisdiction), has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties, to enter into any Ancillary Agreement to which such Subsidiary is or will become a party, to carry out its obligations thereunder, to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby, and to conduct its business as described in the Discovery SEC Documents, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, (a) materially and adversely affect the ability of Discovery to carry out its obligations under, or consummate the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or (b) result in a Discovery Material Adverse Effect or a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect; except for (i) Advanced Micro Devices Belgium N.V., six (6) shares of which are owned by an individual, Thomas M. McCoy, and (ii) Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, nine-point-seven-nine percent (9.79%) of the limited partner interests of which are owned by an unaffiliated third party, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such Subsidiary has been
Good Standing of Subsidiaries
 
duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and, except as set forth in the Discovery SEC Documents, all outstanding capital stock of each such Subsidiary is owned by Discovery, directly or through Subsidiaries, and is free and clear of any Encumbrance, except for all shares or interests of Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH, Discovery Fab 36 Admin GmbH and Discovery Fab 36 LLC, which are pledged to lenders in connection with the Term Loan Facility Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Discovery and the execution and delivery of the Ancillary Agreements by Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries who is or will become a party thereto, the performance by Discovery and each such Subsidiary of its obligations hereunder and thereunder and the consummation by Discovery and each such Subsidiary of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Discovery and each such Subsidiary. This Agreement has been, and upon their execution the Ancillary Agreements shall have been, duly executed and delivered by Discovery and each such Subsidiary, and this Agreement constitutes, and upon their execution the Ancillary Agreements shall constitute, valid and binding obligations of Discovery and each such Subsidiary, enforceable against Discovery and each such Subsidiary in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization of Agreements; Enforceability
SECTION 3.04. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Discovery and the execution and delivery of the Ancillary Agreements by Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries who is or will become a party thereto, the performance by Discovery and each such Subsidiary of their obligations hereunder and thereunder and the consummation by Discovery and each such Subsidiary of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby do not and will not require any material Authorizations other than the Required Authorizations and do not and will not require any material Consents other than the Required Consents.
Absence of Further Requirements
SECTION 3.05. . The capital stock of Discovery conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Discovery SEC Documents. The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of Discovery have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. As of September 27, 2008, there were 608,461,106 shares of Discovery Common Stock issued and outstanding. Since September 27, 2008, Discovery has not issued any shares of Discovery Common Stock except under the Stock Option Plans or pursuant to contractual rights described in the Discovery SEC Documents, and since September 27, 2008, except pursuant to the Stock Option Plans, Discovery has not granted or issued any, and except as described in the Discovery SEC Documents, there do not exist any, options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of capital stock or ownership interests in Discovery.
Capitalization
SECTION 3.06. . Discovery has filed all forms, reports and documents required to be filed by it with the SEC since December 31, 2005 (collectively, the ""). The Discovery SEC Documents (i) at the time they were filed, or, if amended, as of the date of such amendment, complied in all material respects with either the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and (ii) did not, at the time they were filed, or, if amended, as of the date of such amendment, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. None of Discovery's Subsidiaries are required to file any form, report or other document with the SEC.
Discovery SEC Documents
Discovery SEC Documents
SECTION 3.07. . The financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Discovery SEC Documents, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Discovery and its consolidated Subsidiaries at the dates indicated, and said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP (except as otherwise noted therein).
Financial Statements
 
SECTION 3.08. . The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Discovery SEC Documents are independent public accountants as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder.
Independent Accountants
SECTION 3.09. . With respect to the Stock Options, (i) each Stock Option designated by Discovery at the time of grant as an "incentive stock option," as defined in the Code so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the Grant Date by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of Discovery (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Stock Option Plans, the Exchange Act, and all other Laws and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Discovery securities are traded, (iv)(A) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to or greater than the fair market value of a share of Discovery Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date or (B) if the per share exercise price was not equal to or greater than the fair market value of a share of Discovery Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date, the appropriate accounting charges were taken in Discovery's financial statements, and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the financial statements (including the related notes) of Discovery and disclosed in Discovery's filings with the SEC in accordance with the Exchange Act and other applicable Laws. Discovery has not knowingly granted, and there is no and has been no policy or practice of Discovery of granting, Stock Options prior to, or otherwise coordinating the grant of Stock Options with the release or other public announcement of material information regarding Discovery or its Subsidiaries or their results of operations or prospects.
Stock Options
SECTION 3.10. . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Discovery SEC Documents, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Discovery SEC Documents, (i) Discovery has conducted the Discovery Business only in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice, (ii) there has been no Discovery Material Adverse Effect or FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by Discovery on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
SECTION 3.11. . Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries is in material default under any Material Discovery Contract. The execution and delivery by Discovery of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, and the execution and delivery of the Ancillary Agreements by each Subsidiary who is or will become a party thereto, the compliance by Discovery and each such Subsidiary with all the provisions hereof or thereof, the performance by Discovery and each such Subsidiary of all of its obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, and the delivery of the Discovery Shares and Warrants pursuant to this Agreement and the delivery of the Warrant Shares pursuant to the Warrants will not: (i) assuming the receipt of all Required Consents, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the charter or by-laws or other constituent documents of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries, any Material Discovery Contract, or any other indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument that is material to Discovery and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to Discovery, any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property; (iii) result in the imposition or creation of (or the obligation to create or impose) any material Encumbrance on the assets, properties or business of Discovery, including the FoundryCo Assets, under any agreement or instrument to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; or (iv) result in the suspension, termination or revocation of any material Consent or Authorization of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or any other impairment of the rights of the holder of any such material Consent or Authorization.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
SECTION 3.12. . To the knowledge of Discovery and its Subsidiaries, except as disclosed in the Discovery SEC Documents, which descriptions are accurate in all material respects, there is no material Action before or brought by any Governmental Authority, now pending or threatened against or affecting Discovery or such Subsidiary.
Absence of Proceedings
 
SECTION 3.13. . No significant unfair labor practice complaint is pending against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened against any of them, before the National Labor Relations Board or any similar Governmental Authority and no significant Action arising out of or under any collective bargaining or collective agreement is pending against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened against any of them; and no material labor dispute with the employees of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of Discovery, is imminent.
Absence of Labor Dispute
SECTION 3.14. . Discovery and its Subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use all material Intellectual Property necessary for the conduct of the Discovery Business. Except as set forth in the Discovery SEC Documents: (i) to the knowledge of Discovery, there is no material infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property; (ii) to the knowledge of Discovery, there is no pending or threatened material Action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the rights of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries in or to any such Intellectual Property; (iii) to the knowledge of Discovery, there is no pending or threatened material Action by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; (iv) to the knowledge of Discovery, there is no pending or threatened material Action by others that Discovery infringes or otherwise violates any Patent, Trademark, Copyright, Trade Secret or other proprietary rights of others; (v) to the knowledge of Discovery, there is no U.S. Patent or published U.S. Patent application which contains claims that dominate or may dominate any Intellectual Property owned by or licensed to Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries or that interferes with the issued or pending claims related to any such Intellectual Property; and (vi) there is no prior art of which Discovery is aware that may render any U.S. Patent held by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries invalid or any U.S. Patent application held by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries unpatentable which has not been disclosed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Intellectual Property
SECTION 3.15. . Discovery and its Subsidiaries possess such material Authorizations as are necessary to conduct the Discovery Business; Discovery and its Subsidiaries are in material compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Authorizations; all of such Authorizations are valid and in full force and effect; and no event has occurred, nor have Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries received any notice of any Actions relating to the revocation or modification of any such Authorizations.
Possession of Authorizations
SECTION 3.16. . Each of Discovery and its Subsidiaries owns, licenses or leases all such properties as are necessary and material to the conduct of the Discovery Business.
Title to Property
SECTION 3.17. . Except as disclosed in the Discovery SEC Documents, (i) neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has violated in any material respects any Environmental Laws, (ii) Discovery has established an internal compliance program to ensure material compliance by Discovery and its Subsidiaries with all Environmental Laws, and (iii) to Discovery's knowledge, there are no circumstances that can reasonably be expected to form the basis of any material Action under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Laws
SECTION 3.18. . Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has violated in any material respects any provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("").
ERISA
ERISA
SECTION 3.19. . Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has violated in any material respects any provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
SECTION 3.20. . All Tax Returns required to be filed by Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries in any jurisdiction have been filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all material Taxes due pursuant to such Tax Returns or pursuant to any assessment received by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries have been paid, other than those being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been provided.
Tax Returns
SECTION 3.21. . Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries maintain insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses. Such insurance insures against such losses and risks as are adequate in accordance with customary industry practice to protect Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries and its
Insurance
 
businesses. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received notice from any insurer or agent of such insurer that substantial capital improvements or other expenditures will have to be made in order to continue such insurance. All such insurance is outstanding and duly in force on the date hereof and as of the Closing.
SECTION 3.22. . Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the records of assets are compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls
SECTION 3.23. . There is and has been no failure on the part of Discovery or any of Discovery's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including Section 402 thereof related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
SECTION 3.24. . The Discovery Business is, and has been conducted at all times in compliance with all Money Laundering Laws and no Action by or before any court or Governmental Authority or any arbitrator involving Discovery with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
SECTION 3.25. . Except for Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, no broker, finder or investment banker is entitled to any brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Discovery. Discovery is solely responsible for the fees and expenses of Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated.
Brokers
Except as set forth in the appropriate Section of the Disclosure Schedule (provided that any information disclosed under any Section of the Disclosure Schedule shall be deemed disclosed and incorporated into any other Section thereof where it is reasonably apparent that such disclosure is relevant to such other Section), as an inducement to Oyster and FoundryCo to enter into this Agreement, Discovery hereby represents and warrants to Oyster as of the date hereof, and to each of Oyster and FoundryCo as of the Closing, as follows:
SECTION 4.01. . At the Closing, FoundryCo will be an exempted company limited by shares, duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the Cayman Islands. At the Closing, FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries will have all requisite power and authority and all necessary Authorizations to acquire and own the FoundryCo Assets, to assume the Assumed Liabilities and to carry on the FoundryCo business as proposed to be conducted in this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements. At the Closing, FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries will have all corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Ancillary Agreements to which they will become a party, and to perform their obligations hereunder and thereunder. At the Closing, FoundryCo will not have engaged in any business, conducted any operations, or taken any corporate action other than as contemplated by this Agreement (including as disclosed in the Disclosure Schedule) and the Ancillary Agreements. At the Closing, FoundryCo will not have any Subsidiaries or minority interests in other entities other than the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities or as set forth in the FoundryCo Capitalization Table attached as Exhibit L hereto.
Organization, Authority and Qualification of FoundryCo
 
SECTION 4.02. .
Capitalization of FoundryCo
(a) . At the Closing, giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the consolidated capitalization of FoundryCo will be as set forth in the FoundryCo Capitalization Table.
Capitalization
(b) . Upon their issuance as contemplated by this Agreement, both of the Class A Ordinary Shares and all of the Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable and free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement and will be entitled to the rights and subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association. Upon their issuance upon conversion of the Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares, the Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon such conversion will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable and free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Share Issuance
(c) . At the Closing, the execution and delivery of the FoundryCo Convertible Notes by FoundryCo, the performance by FoundryCo of its obligations thereunder, and the consummation by FoundryCo of the transactions contemplated thereby will have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of FoundryCo. At the Closing, the FoundryCo Convertible Notes shall have been duly executed and delivered by FoundryCo and shall constitute a valid and binding obligation of FoundryCo, enforceable against FoundryCo in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity, whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally. At the Closing, FoundryCo will have reserved for issuance the sufficient Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares issuable upon conversion of the FoundryCo Convertible Notes. The Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares issuable upon such conversion will, when issued, be entitled to the rights and subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable and free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
FoundryCo Convertible Notes
(d) . Except for the conversion rights which attach to the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes, on the Closing Date, there will be no Ordinary Shares or any other equity security of FoundryCo issuable upon conversion or exchange of any security of FoundryCo nor will there be any rights, options or warrants outstanding or other agreements to acquire Ordinary Shares or any other equity security of FoundryCo (except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement), nor will FoundryCo be contractually obligated to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any of its outstanding securities. Except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement, no shareholder of FoundryCo is entitled to any preemptive or similar rights to subscribe for shares in capital of FoundryCo. Except as set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement, FoundryCo has not agreed to register any of its securities under the Securities Act and there are no existing voting trusts or similar agreements to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is a party with respect to the voting of the capital of FoundryCo or the capital stock of any of its Subsidiaries.
Absence of Other Rights
SECTION 4.03. . Discovery or one or more of its Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to, or, in the case of leased FoundryCo Assets, valid and subsisting leasehold interests in, all the FoundryCo Assets (other than Intellectual Property and Transferred IP Agreements which are covered in Section 4.14), free and clear of all Encumbrances, except Permitted Encumbrances. Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, the FoundryCo Assets (other than Intellectual Property and Transferred IP Agreements which are covered in Section 4.14), together with the services provided by Discovery pursuant to the Ancillary Agreements constitute all of the material tangible assets, properties and contractual rights as are necessary in the conduct of the business of the FoundryCo Group at and immediately after the Closing in substantially the same manner as conducted by Discovery immediately prior to the Closing. The FoundryCo Assets that are tangible assets are in good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and are suitable for the purposes for which they are used and intended to be used. Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the execution of the instruments of transfer contemplated
FoundryCo Assets
 
by this Agreement, FoundryCo will own, with good, valid and marketable title, or lease, under valid and subsisting leases, or otherwise acquire the interests of Discovery and its Subsidiaries in, the tangible FoundryCo Assets, free and clear of any Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances, and without incurring any financial penalty or change that would be materially adverse to the FoundryCo Group in the operations of the tangible FoundryCo Assets, including any increase in rentals, royalties, or license or other fees imposed as a result of, or arising from, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
SECTION 4.04. .
Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries
(a) . Each Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary is a corporation, limited liability company, limited liability partnership or other entity, as the case may be, that is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (to the extent such concept is recognized in such jurisdiction) and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and to own and operate the FoundryCo Assets as now owned and operated by it. Each Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary is, or will be, as of the Closing Date, qualified to conduct business and is, or will be, as of the Closing Date, in good standing (to the extent such concept is recognized in such jurisdiction) in each jurisdiction in which it owns or operates the FoundryCo Assets, except where the failure to be so qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect. Each Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary and its jurisdiction of organization is identified in Section 4.04(a) of the Disclosure Schedule.
Organization of Subsidiaries
(b) . As of the Closing, the authorized and outstanding share capital of each Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary will be as set forth in Section 4.04(b) of the Disclosure Schedule. As of the Closing, all of the Transferred Interests will have been duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable, and free of preemptive or similar rights, and shall have been issued in material compliance with all Laws.
Capitalization
(c) . As of the Closing, there will not be outstanding (A) any options, warrants or other rights to purchase from any Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries any capital stock or other securities of such Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, (B) any securities, notes or other indebtedness convertible into or exchangeable for shares of such capital stock or securities, (C) any other commitments of any kind by any Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries to issue additional shares of capital stock, options, warrants or other securities or (D) any equity equivalent or other ownership interests or similar rights in any Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries.
No Rights to Acquire Securities
(d) . Immediately prior to the Closing, Discovery or its Subsidiaries shall be the sole registered or legal and beneficial owners of the Transferred Interests and the Transferred Interests shall be free and clear of all Encumbrances, and upon the Closing, FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries will acquire good and marketable title to such Transferred Interests, free and clear of any Encumbrance.
Title to Transferred Interests
(e) . Section 4.04(e) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth the identity of each of the holders of equity interests in the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and their respective ownership interests in the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries. None of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries has any Subsidiaries and none owns, directly or indirectly, any equity investment or other ownership interest in any Person. None of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries is a participant in any joint venture, partnership or similar arrangement.
Ownership
(f) . None of FoundryCo or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries has any outstanding Indebtedness.
Indebtedness
(g) . None of the German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries has entered into enterprise agreements () within the meaning of Section 291, 292 German Stock Cooperation Act () and in particular no agreement which obliges any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries to subordinate its management to a third party or to transfer its profits () to a third party. There are no silent partnership participations or similar
German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries
Unternehmensvertrge
Aktiengesetz
Beherrschungs- oder Gewinnabfhrungsvertrag
 
participations under foreign jurisdictions in the German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries. No insolvency proceedings or similar proceedings under applicable Law have been opened with respect to the German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, nor, to Discovery's knowledge, have any been applied for. None of the German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries is obliged to file for insolvency under applicable Law.
SECTION 4.05. . (a) True and complete copies of the June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets and the Pre-Signing Financial Statements have been delivered by Discovery to Oyster and Pearl and are included in Section 4.05 of the Disclosure Schedule.
Financial Information; Books and Records
 
 
(b) The books of account and other financial records of Discovery Saxony Holding GmbH, Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH, Discovery Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG: (i) reflect all items of income and expense and all assets and Liabilities required to be reflected therein in accordance with German generally accepted accounting standards applied on a basis consistent with the past practices of Discovery and its Subsidiaries; (ii) are in all material respects complete and correct, and do not contain or reflect any material inaccuracies or discrepancies; and (iii) have been maintained in accordance with good business and accounting practices.
(c) When prepared and delivered to Oyster and Pearl pursuant to Section 8.04, the Carve Out Financial Statements will (i) be prepared in accordance with the books of account and other financial records of Discovery and its Subsidiaries, (ii) be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the past practices of Discovery, (iii) present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the FoundryCo business as of the dates thereof and for the periods covered thereby, (iv) be accompanied by the unqualified opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, and (v) conform in all material respects to the requirements of the SEC's Regulation S-X as they relate to carve-out financial statements.
SECTION 4.06. . There are no Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or otherwise related to the FoundryCo Assets that are required by GAAP to be set forth on the balance sheet of such entity, and to the knowledge of Discovery, there are no material contingent Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or otherwise related to the FoundryCo Assets, regardless of whether such Liabilities would be required by GAAP to be set forth on the balance sheet of such entity, other than Liabilities (a) reflected or reserved against on the June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets, or (b) as of the date of this Agreement, incurred since June 28, 2008 or, as of the Closing, incurred since the date of this Agreement, in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice of Discovery. Reserves are reflected on the June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets against all Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or otherwise related to the FoundryCo Assets, other than Liabilities relating to the Excluded Assets and Excluded Liabilities, in amounts that have been established on a basis consistent with the past practices of Discovery and in accordance with GAAP.
Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities
 
SECTION 4.07. .
Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities
(a) Each Transferred FoundryCo JV Entity and its jurisdiction of organization is listed in Section 4.07(a) of the Disclosure Schedule. There are no voting trusts, member agreements, proxies or other similar agreements in effect with respect to the voting of the Transferred Interests in the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities. Discovery and its Subsidiaries have made all capital contributions to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities required to be made by them, there are no capital calls pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, contemplated with respect thereto, and none of the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities may make any capital call or otherwise cause Discovery or its Subsidiaries to contribute additional capital or incur any Liabilities with respect to such Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities without the consent of Discovery.
(b) To the knowledge of Discovery, there are no Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities that are required by GAAP to be set forth on the balance sheet of such entity, and to the knowledge of Discovery, there are no material contingent Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, regardless of whether such Liabilities would be required by GAAP to be set forth on the balance sheet of such entity, other than Liabilities reflected or reserved against on the 2007 fiscal-year-end balance sheet of each such Transferred FoundryCo JV Entity, which has been made available to Oyster for each Transferred FoundryCo JV Entity. There are no Liabilities of Discovery or its Subsidiaries, contingent or otherwise, that relate to such Transferred FoundryCo JV Entity, other than Liabilities reflected or reserved against on the June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets. Reserves are reflected on the June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets against all Liabilities of Discovery and its Subsidiaries with respect to or otherwise related to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, other than Liabilities relating to the Excluded Assets and Excluded Liabilities, in amounts that have been established on a basis consistent with the past practices of Discovery and in accordance with GAAP.
(c) From June 28, 2008 to the date of this Agreement, neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries have (i) made any capital expenditure or commitment for any capital expenditure relating to, (ii) made any loan to, (iii) guaranteed any Indebtedness of, or (iv) otherwise incurred any Indebtedness relating to or on behalf of, in each case, the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities.
(d) Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any written notice from any Governmental Authority of any allegation that the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities are not, or have not been operated in, compliance with any Law or Governmental Order that remains outstanding and has not been resolved.
(e) Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any: (i) management contract relating to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities; (ii) contract or agreement with any Governmental Authority relating to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities; (iii) contract or agreement that limits or purports to limit the ability of Discovery or its Subsidiaries relating to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities to compete in any line of business or with any Person or in any geographic area or during any period of time; (iv) contract or agreement relating to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities between or among Discovery or its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and one or more Affiliates of Discovery, on the other hand; or (v) any other contract or agreement relating to the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, whether or not made in the ordinary course of business, that is material to Discovery or its Subsidiaries or the FoundryCo Assets.
SECTION 4.08. . Discovery or its Subsidiaries have good and marketable title to the Transferred Inventories free and clear of all Encumbrances, other than Permitted Encumbrances. The Transferred Inventories do not consist of any items held on consignment. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries is under any obligation or liability with respect to accepting returns of Transferred Inventories. The Transferred Inventories were acquired or manufactured and maintained in accordance with the regular business practices of Discovery and its Subsidiaries, consist of items of quality and quantity usable or salable in the ordinary course of business within a reasonable period of time and are valued by Discovery at reasonable amounts in accordance with GAAP, applied in a manner consistent with the past practices of Discovery, stated at standard cost adjusted to approximate the lower of actual cost (first-in, first-out method) or market (net realizable value). The Transferred Inventories are in good and merchantable condition in all material respects, are suitable and usable
Transferred Inventories
 
for the purposes for which they are intended, except for such items of inventory that have been written down to realizable market value or for which adequate reserves have been provided in a manner consistent with the past practices of Discovery. None of the Transferred Inventories are obsolete, unusable, slow-moving, damaged or unsaleable in the ordinary course of business, except for such items of inventory that have been written down to realizable market value or for which adequate reserves have been provided in a manner consistent with the past practices of Discovery.
SECTION 4.09. . From June 28, 2008 to the date of this Agreement, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the FoundryCo Assets have been operated in all material respects in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice. From June 28, 2008 to the date of this Agreement, neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries have:
Absence of Certain Changes
(a) written down or written up (or failed to write down or write up in accordance with GAAP consistent with past practice) the value of any FoundryCo Assets other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and in accordance with GAAP;
(b) made any change in any method of accounting or accounting practice or policy used by Discovery, other than such changes required or permitted by GAAP and set forth in Section 4.09 of the Disclosure Schedule;
(c) amended, terminated, cancelled or compromised any material claims related to the FoundryCo Assets, or waived any other rights of substantial value related to the FoundryCo Assets;
(d) sold, transferred, leased, subleased, licensed or otherwise disposed of any material properties or material assets, real, personal, intangible or mixed (including leasehold interests and Intellectual Property) that are included in the FoundryCo Assets, other than the sale of Inventories and non-exclusive licenses of Intellectual Property in each case, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(e) merged with, entered into a consolidation with or acquired an interest in any Person engaged in a business relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or acquired a substantial portion of the assets or business of any Person engaged in a business relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or any division or line of business thereof, or otherwise acquired any material assets relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(f) made any capital expenditure or commitment for any capital expenditure, in each case relating to the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000) individually or five million dollars ($5,000,000) in the aggregate;
(g) issued any sales orders or otherwise agreed to make any purchases, in each case relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, involving exchanges in value in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000) individually or five million dollars ($5,000,000) in the aggregate;
(h) made any material change in the customary methods of operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, including practices and policies relating to manufacturing, purchasing, Inventories, marketing, selling and pricing;
(i) made, revoked or changed any Tax election or method of Tax accounting, or settled or compromised any material liability with respect to Taxes;
(j) incurred any Indebtedness for borrowed money relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000) individually or five million dollars ($5,000,000) in the aggregate;
 
(k) made any loan to, guaranteed any Indebtedness of, or otherwise incurred any Indebtedness on behalf of, any Person in connection with the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities;
(l) (i) granted any increase, or announced any increase, in the wages, salaries, compensation, bonuses, incentives, pension or other benefits payable by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries to any Transferred Employees, including any increase or change pursuant to any Plan, or (ii) established or increased, or promised to increase, any benefits under any Plan, in either case except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or as required by Law or any collective agreement;
(m) entered into any agreement, arrangement or transaction relating to FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities with any of its directors, officers or employees (or with any relative, beneficiary, spouse or Affiliate of such Persons) other than standard non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements or the like;
(n) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (i) abandoned, sold, assigned, or granted any security interest in or to any of the Owned Intellectual Property, Licensed Intellectual Property or Transferred IP Agreements, including failing (A) to perform or cause to be performed all applicable filings, recordings and other acts or (B) to pay or cause to be paid all required fees and taxes to maintain and protect its interest in such Intellectual Property, in each case, and not including any Intellectual Property applications on registrations that Discovery, in its reasonable business judgment, has elected to abandon, (ii) granted to any third party any license with respect to any Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property, (iii) developed, created or invented any Intellectual Property jointly with any third party (other than such joint development, creation or invention with a third party that is in progress prior to June 28, 2008), or (iv) disclosed, or allowed to be disclosed, any material confidential Intellectual Property, unless such Intellectual Property is subject to a confidentiality or non-disclosure covenant protecting against further disclosure thereof or pursuant to a patent application, submission to a standards body, or otherwise elected by Discovery, in its reasonable business judgment, not to maintain as a trade secret;
(o) suffered any FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect; or
(p) agreed, whether in writing or otherwise, to take any of the actions specified in this Section 4.09 or granted any options to purchase, rights of first refusal, rights of first offer or any other similar rights or commitments with respect to any of the actions specified in this Section 4.09 except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
SECTION 4.10. . (a) There are no material Actions by or against Discovery or any Affiliate thereof and relating to or affecting any of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries pending before any Governmental Authority (or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened to be brought by or before any Governmental Authority).
Litigation; Governmental Orders
(b) There are no material Governmental Orders applicable to Discovery, any of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective properties or assets, relating to the FoundryCo Assets and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries (nor, to the knowledge of Discovery, are there any such Governmental Orders threatened to be imposed by any Governmental Authority).
(c) None of the matters set forth in Section 4.10(a) or 4.10(b) of the Disclosure Schedule, individually or in the aggregate, has had or is reasonably likely to have a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect or has had or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect upon the ability of Discovery or its Subsidiaries to enter into and perform their respective obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, or that is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
 
SECTION 4.11. . (a) Discovery and its Subsidiaries have operated the FoundryCo Assets (including the Owned Intellectual Property and the Licensed Intellectual Property, but excluding the Transferred IP Agreements) and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries in material compliance with all Laws and Governmental Orders applicable to Discovery, any of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective properties or assets, including the FoundryCo Assets. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any written notice from any Governmental Authority of any allegation that the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities are not, or have not been operated in, compliance with any Law or Governmental Order which allegation is still outstanding and has not been resolved.
Compliance with Laws
SECTION 4.12. . (a):
Environmental and Other Permits and Licenses; Related Matters
 
 
 
 
(b) Neither the execution of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby will require any Remedial Action or notice to or consent of Governmental Authorities or third parties pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law or Environmental Permit.
SECTION 4.13. . (a) Section 4.13(a) of the Disclosure Schedule lists each of the following written contracts and agreements (or summaries of oral agreements) of Discovery or its Subsidiaries relating to the FoundryCo Assets (such contracts and agreements, together with all contracts, agreements, leases and subleases concerning the use, occupancy, management or operation of any Real Property (including all contracts, agreements, leases and subleases) and all Transferred IP Agreements (other than Immaterial IP Agreements), being ""):
Material Contracts
Material FoundryCo Contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Section 4.13 and Section 4.15, the term "" shall include any and all leases, subleases, sale/leaseback agreements or similar arrangements.
lease
(b) Each Material FoundryCo Contract: (i) is in full force and effect, is valid and binding on Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries that are a party thereto and, to the knowledge of Discovery on the date hereof, is valid and binding on each other party thereto, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity, whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally; (ii) upon receipt of the Consents set forth in Section 4.13 of the Disclosure Schedule (the "") is assignable to FoundryCo without penalty or other adverse consequence; and (iii) upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary
Required Consents
 
Agreements are able to continue in full force and effect without financial penalty or change that would be materially adverse to the FoundryCo Group in the operations of the FoundryCo Assets immediately following the Closing. Each of Discovery and its Subsidiaries has complied in all material respects with all such Material FoundryCo Contracts to which it is a party and is not in material default under any of such Material FoundryCo Contracts and, to the knowledge of Discovery, there exists no condition, nor has there been any occurrence, which would reasonably be expected to result in such a material default by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries.
(c) Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice of termination, cancellation, breach or default under any Material FoundryCo Contract. To the knowledge of Discovery, (i) no other party to any Material FoundryCo Contract is in material breach thereof or default thereunder and (ii) there exists no condition, nor has there been any occurrence, which would reasonably be expected to result in such material breach or default.
(d) Discovery has made available to Oyster true and complete copies of all Material FoundryCo Contracts.
(e) There is no contract, agreement, arrangement, or other legal obligation, absolute or contingent, granting any Person any right to purchase any of the material FoundryCo Assets other than pursuant to this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreements or the Wafer Purchase Agreement.
SECTION 4.14. . (a) Section 4.14(a) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a true and complete list of (i) all Assigned Patents, (ii) all registered Trademarks and Trademark applications, registered copyrights and copyright applications and domain names included in the Owned Intellectual Property and (iii) all Transferred IP Agreements (other than Immaterial IP Agreements).
Intellectual Property
(b) To the knowledge of Discovery, the operation of the FoundryCo Assets and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries as currently conducted and Discovery's use of the Owned Intellectual Property and Licensed Intellectual Property in connection therewith do not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the Intellectual Property or other proprietary rights, including rights of privacy, publicity and endorsement, of any third party, and no Actions or Claims are pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries alleging any of the foregoing.
(c) Discovery is the exclusive or joint owner of the entire right, title and interest in and to the Owned Intellectual Property, and the exclusive owner of the material Owned Intellectual Property, free and clear of Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances, and upon Closing, FoundryCo shall have the right to use the Owned Intellectual Property, the Licensed Intellectual Property and the Patents licensed under the Patent License Agreement in the operation of the FoundryCo Assets and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries as currently conducted (subject only (i) in the case of Licensed Intellectual Property, to the terms of the Transferred IP Agreements; (ii) in the case of Patents licensed under the Patent License Agreement, to the terms of the Patent License Agreement; and (iii) in the case of Shared Technology, to the terms of the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement).
(d) No Owned Intellectual Property, or to the knowledge of Discovery, any Licensed Intellectual Property is subject to any outstanding decree, order, injunction, judgment or ruling restricting the use of such Intellectual Property or that impairs or would impair the validity or enforceability of such Intellectual Property.
(e) The Licensed Intellectual Property (including under the Immaterial IP Agreements), the Owned Intellectual Property and the Patents licensed either under the Patent License Agreement or the Patent Transfer and License Agreement includes all of the Intellectual Property used in the ordinary day-to-day operation of the FoundryCo Assets and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries as currently conducted by Discovery or as proposed to be conducted by the FoundryCo Group at and immediately after the Closing (in the same manner as conducted by Discovery immediately prior to Closing).
 
(f) No Actions or Claims are pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries (i) based upon or challenging or seeking to deny or restrict the use by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries of any of the Owned Intellectual Property or (ii) alleging that the Licensed Intellectual Property is being used, licensed or sublicensed in conflict with the terms of any license or other agreement.
(g) Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has granted any exclusive license or other exclusive right to any third party with respect to the Owned Intellectual Property. The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements will not result in the termination of any of the Owned Intellectual Property.
(h) Discovery has used reasonable efforts to prevent the introduction of viruses, worms, trojan horses and other material known contaminants in the Transferred Software. The Transferred Software does not incorporate any Public Software. Discovery and its Subsidiaries have obtained all approvals necessary for exporting the Transferred Software outside the United States and importing the Transferred Software into any country in which the Transferred Software is now sold or licensed for use, and to Discovery's knowledge, all such export and import approvals in the United States and throughout the world are valid, current, outstanding and in full force and effect.
(i) Discovery and its Subsidiaries have taken commercially reasonable steps in accordance with normal industry practice to maintain the confidentiality of the Trade Secrets and other confidential Intellectual Property used in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries. To the knowledge of Discovery, (i) there has been no misappropriation of any material Trade Secrets or other material confidential Intellectual Property used in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities by any Person, (ii) no employee, independent contractor or agent of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries has misappropriated any Trade Secrets of any other Person in the course of performance as an employee, independent contractor or agent of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries, and (iii) no employee, independent contractor or agent of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries is in default or breach of any term of any employment agreement, nondisclosure agreement, assignment of invention agreement or similar agreement or contract relating in any material way to the protection, ownership, development, use or transfer of Intellectual Property used in connection with the FoundryCo business.
(j) To the knowledge of Discovery, Section 4.14(j) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a current list of all issued Patents and all Patent applications owned by Discovery.
SECTION 4.15. . (a) Discovery and its Subsidiaries hold (i) good and marketable title in fee simple to all of the Owned Real Property outside of Germany, and (ii) good and valid leasehold or license interests in all of the Leased Real Property, in each case free and clear of all Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances. Discovery and its Subsidiaries hold ownership title () to all of the Owned Real Property in Germany, free and clear of all Encumbrances other than Encumbrances set forth in the land register () for the respective land parcel.
Real Property
Eigentumsrecht
Grundbuch
(b) Discovery and its Subsidiaries are in peaceful and undisturbed possession of each parcel of Real Property, and there are no contractual or legal restrictions that preclude or materially restrict the ability to use the Real Property for the purposes for which it is currently being used. All utilities required for the construction, use, occupancy, operation and maintenance of the Real Property are adequate for the conduct of the operation of the FoundryCo Assets currently conducted. There are no material latent defects or material adverse physical conditions affecting the Real Property or any of the facilities, buildings, structures, erections, improvements, fixtures, fixed assets and personalty of a permanent nature annexed, affixed or attached to, located on or forming part of the Real Property. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has leased any parcel or any portion of any parcel of Real Property to any other Person and no other Person has any rights to the use, occupancy or enjoyment thereof pursuant to any lease, license, occupancy or other agreement, nor has Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries assigned its interest under any lease listed in Section 4.15(b) of the Disclosure Schedule to any third party.
 
(c) Section 4.15(c) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a true and complete list of all of the Owned Real Property, and, for each parcel of Owned Real Property in Germany, the land register reference number of such land parcel. The current use and operation of the Real Property are in material compliance with all applicable Laws (including Laws relating to zoning and land use) and public and private covenants and restrictions, and neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received written notice of material noncompliance with any applicable Laws.
(d) Section 4.15(d) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a true and complete list of all leases relating to the Leased Real Property (including all amendments, modifications, supplements, exhibits, schedules, addenda and restatements thereto and thereof). Discovery has made available to Oyster true and complete copies of all of such leases.
(e) There are no condemnation proceedings or eminent domain proceedings of any kind pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened against the Real Property.
(f) (i) All the Real Property is occupied under a valid and current certificate of occupancy or similar permit to the extent required by applicable Law, (ii) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements will not require the issuance of any new or amended certificate of occupancy, and (iii) to the knowledge of Discovery, there are no facts that would prevent the Real Property from being occupied by FoundryCo after the Closing in the same manner as occupied by Discovery immediately prior to the Closing.
SECTION 4.16. . Section 4.16 of the Disclosure Schedule lists each item or distinct group of machinery, equipment, tools, supplies, furniture, fixtures, personalty, vehicles, and other tangible personal property included in the FoundryCo Assets (the ""), all of which are in good operating condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear and immaterial defects excepted.
Tangible Personal Property
Tangible Personal Property
SECTION 4.17. . Listed in Section 4.17 of the Disclosure Schedule are the names and addresses of all the suppliers from which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries ordered raw materials, supplies, merchandise and other goods constituting FoundryCo Assets having an aggregate purchase price of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more during the twelve-month period ended June 28, 2008 and the amount for which each such supplier invoiced Discovery or its Subsidiaries during such period. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any written notice and has no knowledge that any such supplier will not sell raw materials, supplies, merchandise and other goods to FoundryCo at any time after the Closing on terms and conditions substantially similar to those used in its current sales to Discovery and its Subsidiaries, subject only to general and customary price increases.
Suppliers
SECTION 4.18. . (a) . Section 4.18(a) of the Disclosure Schedule lists (i) all current employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) and all current bonus, stock option, stock purchase, restricted stock, incentive, retention, change of control, deferred compensation, retiree medical or life insurance, supplemental retirement, severance or other benefit plans, programs or arrangements, and all employment or consulting agreements or contracts (other than those (x) covering those individuals providing services outside the United States and (y) providing for notice periods of less than six (6) months), termination, severance or other similar contracts or agreements, to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, with respect to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries has any obligation or which are maintained, contributed to or sponsored by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries for the benefit of any current employee, consultant, officer or director of Discovery who performs and is expected to perform services related to the operation of the FoundryCo Assets (other than through the Transition Services Agreement), the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities (each, a ""), (ii) each employee benefit plan for which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries could incur liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated, (iii) any plan in respect of which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries could incur liability under Section 4212(c) of ERISA, and (iv) any contracts, arrangements or understandings between Discovery or any of its Affiliates and any employee of
Employee Benefit Matters
Plans and Material Documents
FoundryCo Employee
 
Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the sale of the FoundryCo Assets (collectively, the ""). Each Plan is in writing and Discovery has made available to Oyster a complete and accurate copy of each Plan and a complete and accurate copy of each material document prepared in connection with each such Plan, including, to the extent applicable, a copy of (I) each trust or other funding arrangement, (II) each summary plan description and summary of material modifications, (III) the most recently filed IRS Form 5500, (IV) the most recently received IRS determination letter for each such Plan, and (V) the most recently prepared actuarial report and financial statement in connection with each such Plan. There are no other employee benefit plans, programs, arrangements or agreements, whether formal or informal, whether in writing or not, to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, with respect to which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries has any obligation or which are maintained, contributed to or sponsored by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries for the benefit of any Transferred Employee. Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has any express or implied commitment, (1) to create, incur liability with respect to, or cause to exist, any other employee benefit plan, program or arrangement with respect to any FoundryCo Employee, (2) to enter into any contract or agreement to provide compensation or benefits to any FoundryCo Employee, or (3) to modify, change or terminate any Plan with respect to any FoundryCo Employee, other than in the ordinary course of business or with respect to a modification, change or termination required by ERISA, the Code or other similar Law.
Plans
(b) . None of the Plans is, or since January 1, 2007, has been, subject to Title IV of ERISA, a multiemployer plan (within the meaning of Section 3(37) or 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) (a "") or a single employer pension plan (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA) for which Discovery or any ERISA Affiliate could incur liability under Section 4063 or 4064 of ERISA (a ""). None of the Plans nor any collective bargaining, collective agreement or similar agreement provides for or promises retiree medical, disability or life insurance benefits to any current or former employee or director.
Absence of Certain Types of Plans
Multiemployer Plan
Multiple Employer Plan
(c) . Each Plan is now and always has been operated in all material respects in accordance with the requirements of all applicable Law, including ERISA and the Code. Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries has performed all material obligations required to be performed by it under, is not in any material respect in default under or in violation of, and has no knowledge of any material default or violation by any party to, any Plan. No Action is pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened with respect to any Plan (other than claims for benefits in the ordinary course) and no fact or event exists that could give rise to any such Action. With respect to the Plans, no event has occurred and, to its knowledge, there exists no condition or set of circumstances, in connection with which it or any of its Subsidiaries could be subject to any material liability under the terms of the Plans, ERISA, the Code or any other applicable Law.
Compliance with Applicable Law
(d) . Each Plan that is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code or Section 401(k) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS covering all of the provisions applicable to the Plan for which determination letters are currently available, and no fact or event has occurred since the date of such determination letter from the IRS to adversely affect the qualified status of any such Plan or the exempt status of any such trust. Each Plan that is a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" subject to Section 409A of the Code has been operated in all material respects in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance promulgated thereunder since January 1, 2005.
Qualification of Certain Plans
(e) . To the knowledge of Discovery, there has been no prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) with respect to any Plan. Neither Discovery nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has incurred any liability for any penalty or tax arising under Section 4971, 4972, 4980, 4980B or 6652 of the Code or any liability under Section 502 of ERISA, and no fact or event exists that could give rise to any such liability. Neither Discovery nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has incurred any liability under, arising out of or by operation of Title IV of ERISA (other than liability for premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation arising in the ordinary course), including any liability in connection with (i) the termination or reorganization of any employee benefit plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or (ii) the withdrawal from any Multiemployer Plan or Multiple Employer Plan, and no fact or event exists that could give
Absence of Certain Liabilities and Events
 
rise to any such liability. No complete or partial termination has occurred within the five (5) years preceding the date hereof with respect to any Plan. None of the assets of Discovery or any of its ERISA Affiliates is the subject of any lien arising under Section 302(f) of ERISA or Section 412(n) of the Code; neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has been required to post any security under Section 307 of ERISA or Section 401(a)(29) of the Code; and no fact or event exists which could give rise to any such lien or requirement to post any such security.
(f) . All material contributions, premiums or payments required to be made with respect to any Plan have been made on or before their due dates. To the knowledge of Discovery, all such contributions have been fully deducted for income tax purposes and no such deduction has been challenged or disallowed by any Governmental Authority, and no fact or event exists that could give rise to any such challenge or disallowance.
Plan Contributions and Funding
(g) . Neither its execution of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements by Discovery, the performance of its obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, the termination of the employment of any of its employees within a specified time of the Closing Date nor stockholder approval of the transactions covered by this Agreement, will either alone or in combination with another event (A) entitle any employees of Discovery or its Subsidiaries to severance pay or any increase in severance pay, (B) accelerate the time of payment or vesting or trigger any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or trigger any other material obligation pursuant to, any of Plan, (C) limit or restrict the right of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries to merge, amend or terminate any Plan, or (D) result in payments under any of Plans which would not be deductible under Section 162(m) of the Code. None of Plans in effect immediately prior to the Closing (A) would result, separately or in the aggregate (including as a result of its execution of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby), in the payment of any "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code or (B) provides for a "gross up" or similar payments in respect of any Taxes or interest that may become payable under Section 409A of the Code as a result of its execution of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Effect of Transactions
SECTION 4.19. . (a) Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries is (i) a party to any collective bargaining agreement, shop agreement, group shop agreement, shop policy, collective agreement, recognition agreement or other labor or trade union contract or (ii) a member of any employer's association related to organized labor, in each case, applicable to persons employed by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and to the knowledge of Discovery, currently there are no organizational campaigns, petitions, negotiations or other unionization activities seeking recognition of a collective bargaining unit, labor union, trade union, works council or other employee representative body which could affect the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries; (b) there are no controversies, strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages pending or, to the best knowledge of Discovery, threatened between Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries and any of employees employed in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries has experienced any such controversy, strike, slowdown or work stoppage within the past three (3) years; (c) neither Discovery has nor any of its Subsidiaries breached in any material respect or otherwise failed to comply in all material respects with the provisions of any collective bargaining, collective agreement or union contract, and there are no material grievances outstanding against Discovery under any such agreement or contract; (d) the consent, notice or opinion of any employee representative body applicable to persons employed by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries is not required to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (e) there are no material unfair labor practice complaints pending against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries before the National Labor Relations Board or any other Governmental Authority or any material current union representation questions involving employees of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries; (f) Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries is currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Laws relating to the employment of labor, including those related to wages, social security, hours, collective bargaining and the payment and withholding of taxes, social security, and other
Labor Matters
 
sums as required by the appropriate Governmental Authority and has withheld and paid to the appropriate Governmental Authority or is holding for payment not yet due to such Governmental Authority all amounts required to be withheld from employees of Discovery in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and is not liable for any arrears of wages, Taxes, penalties or other sums for failure to comply with any of the foregoing; (g) Discovery and each of its Subsidiaries has properly classified for Tax purposes, and for the purpose of determining eligibility to participate in any Plan, all employees, leased employees, independent contractors and consultants providing services to the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries; (h) there is no claim with respect to payment of wages, salary or overtime pay that has been asserted and is now pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened before any Governmental Authority with respect to any persons currently or formerly employed by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries; (i) neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to, or otherwise bound by, any consent decree with, or citation by, any Governmental Authority relating to employees or employment practices; (j) there is no material charge or material proceeding with respect to a violation of any occupational safety or health standard that has been asserted or is now pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened with respect to Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries; and (k) there is no charge of discrimination in employment or employment practices, for any reason, including age, gender, race, religion or other legally protected category, which has been asserted and is now pending or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened before the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any other Governmental Authority in any jurisdiction in which Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries has employed or currently employs any person in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries.
SECTION 4.20. . All directors, officers, management employees and technical and professional employees of Discovery and its Subsidiaries are under written obligation to Discovery or the relevant Subsidiary to maintain in confidence all confidential or proprietary information acquired by them in the course of their employment and to assign to Discovery all inventions made by them within the scope of their employment during such employment and for a reasonable period thereafter.
Employee Confidentiality and Assignment of Inventions
SECTION 4.21. . No officer or director of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries and no relative or spouse (or relative of such spouse) who resides with, or is a dependent of, any such officer or director:
Certain Interests
(a) has any material direct or indirect financial interest in any material competitor, supplier or customer of Discovery or of FoundryCo as of the Closing; provided, however, that the ownership of securities representing no more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of any competitor, supplier or customer and that are also listed on any national securities exchange, shall not be deemed to be a "financial interest" so long as the Person owning such securities has no other connection or relationship with such competitor, supplier or customer; or
(b) owns, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, or has any other interest in any tangible or intangible property of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries that relates to the operation of the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities regardless of whether such tangible or intangible property constitutes FoundryCo Assets.
SECTION 4.22. . All material assets, properties and risks of Discovery relating to the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries are, and for the past three (3) years (or, with respect to any Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary, for such shorter period as such Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary has been in existence) have been, covered by valid and, except for insurance policies that have expired under their terms in the ordinary course, currently effective insurance policies or binders of insurance (including general liability insurance, property insurance and workers' compensation insurance) issued in favor of Discovery or its Subsidiaries with responsible insurance companies, in such types and amounts and covering such risks as are consistent with customary practices and standards of companies engaged in businesses and operations similar to those of Discovery and its Subsidiaries.
Insurance
 
SECTION 4.23. . Neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries, nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents, representatives or employees (in their capacity as directors, officers, agents, representatives or employees) has: (a) used any funds for unlawful contributions, gifts, entertainment or other unlawful expenses relating to political activity in respect of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries; (b) directly or indirectly, paid or delivered any fee, commission or other sum of money or item of property, however characterized, to any finder, agent, or other party acting on behalf of or under the auspices of a governmental official or Governmental Authority, in the United States or any other country, which is in any manner illegal under any Law of the United States or any other country having jurisdiction, in respect of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries; or (c) made any payment to any customer or supplier of Discovery or any officer, director, partner, employee or agent of any such customer or supplier for an unlawful reciprocal practice, or made any other unlawful payment or given any other unlawful consideration to any such customer or supplier or any such officer, director, partner, employee or agent, in respect of the FoundryCo Assets, or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries.
Certain Business Practices
SECTION 4.24. . (a) All Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) and each of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries in any jurisdiction have been timely filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all such Tax Returns are complete and correct in all material respects. All material Taxes due pursuant to such Tax Returns or pursuant to any assessment received by Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries have been paid, other than those being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been provided.
Tax Matters
(b) There are no Tax Liens upon any of the assets or properties of Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, other than with respect to Taxes not yet due and payable.
(c) No examination or audit of any Tax Return relating to any Taxes of Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, or with respect to any Taxes due from or with respect to Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries by any Governmental Authority is currently in progress or, to the knowledge of Discovery, threatened or contemplated. No assessment of Tax has been proposed in writing against Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or any of their assets or properties, and Discovery knows of no grounds for any such assessment. There are no outstanding agreements, waivers or arrangements extending the statutory period of limitation applicable to any claim for, or the period for the collection or assessment of, Taxes due from or with respect to Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) or any of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries for any taxable period.
(d) None of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries (A) is or has ever been a member of an affiliated group (other than a group the common parent of which is Discovery) filing a consolidated tax return or (B) has any liability for Taxes of any person arising from the application of U.S. Treasury Regulation section 1.1502-6 or any analogous provision of state, local or non-U.S. law, or as a transferee or successor, by contract, or otherwise.
(e) None of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries is a party to any tax sharing agreement or similar contract or arrangement or any agreement that obligates it to make any payment computed by reference to the Taxes, taxable income or taxable losses of any other person (other than an agreement among the current members of the U.S. consolidated group).
(f) All Taxes required to be withheld, collected or deposited by or with respect to Discovery (to the extent related to the FoundryCo Assets) and each of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries have been timely withheld, collected or deposited as the case may be, and to the extent required, have been paid to the relevant taxing authority.
SECTION 4.25. . FoundryCo will have no Receivables as of the Closing, and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries will be transferred to FoundryCo at Closing without Receivables.
Receivables
 
As an additional inducement to Pearl to enter into this Agreement, Discovery hereby represents and warrants to Pearl, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing, as follows:
SECTION 5.01. . The Discovery Shares and the Warrants have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to Pearl pursuant to this Agreement and the Warrant Shares have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to Pearl upon Pearl's exercise of the Warrants pursuant to their terms, and, upon issuance and delivery of the Discovery Shares and Warrant Shares by Discovery pursuant to this Agreement and the Warrants respectively against payment of the consideration set forth herein and therein, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. Neither the issuance of the Discovery Shares or Warrants pursuant to this Agreement, nor the issuance of the Warrant Shares upon Pearl's exercise of the Warrants are subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of Discovery.
Authorization of the Discovery Shares, Warrants, and Warrant Shares
SECTION 5.02. . Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by Pearl in Section 7.06 hereof, no registration of the Discovery Shares or Warrants under the Securities Act is required in connection with the offer and sale of the Discovery Shares and Warrants by Discovery to Pearl in the manner contemplated by this Agreement.
Private Placement
SECTION 5.03. . Discovery has not taken, nor will Discovery take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which would be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of Discovery to facilitate the sale or resale of the Discovery Shares, the Warrants or the Warrant Shares.
Absence of Manipulation
SECTION 5.04. . Discovery is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom to the capital or any other accounts of Discovery will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Act
SECTION 5.05. . Discovery is not a "United States real property holding corporation" within the meaning of Section 897(c)(2) of the Code.
Not a Real Property Holding Company
Oyster hereby represents and warrants to Discovery, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing, as follows:
SECTION 6.01. . Oyster has been duly organized and is validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation, and has all necessary power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Due Organization of Oyster
SECTION 6.02. . This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, the performance by Oyster of its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and the consummation by Oyster of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of Oyster. This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party has been validly executed and delivered by Oyster and constitutes valid and binding obligations of Oyster,
Authorization of Agreements; Enforceability
 
enforceable against Oyster in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
SECTION 6.03. . The execution and delivery by Oyster of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, the compliance by Oyster with all the provisions hereof and thereof, the performance by Oyster of all of its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of the partnership agreement or other constituent documents of Oyster; or (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to Oyster.
Absence of Conflicts
SECTION 6.04. . To the knowledge of Oyster, there is no Action before or brought by any Governmental Authority now pending against or affecting Oyster which could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party or the performance by Oyster of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
Absence of Proceedings
SECTION 6.05. . To the knowledge of Oyster, the execution, delivery and performance by Oyster of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party and the compliance by Oyster with all of the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby do not and will not require any further Authorization, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of the Closing.
Absence of Further Requirements
SECTION 6.06. . (a) Oyster acknowledges and understands that (i) the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act or under any state securities Laws and are being offered and sold in reliance upon federal and state exemptions for transactions not involving any public offering, (ii) such exemptions depend in part upon, and such Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes are being sold in reliance on, the representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement, (iii) Oyster may have to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes for an indefinite period of time because the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes must be held indefinitely unless subsequently registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities Laws or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and (iv) a restrictive legend evidencing these restrictions shall be placed on all certificates evidencing the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes.
Investment Representations
(b) Oyster is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act, a sophisticated investor and, by virtue of its business or financial experience, is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment in the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes. Oyster been provided an opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from representatives of Discovery concerning the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the purchase of the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes contemplated hereby.
(c) Oyster is acquiring the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the FoundryCo Convertible Notes for the purpose of investment and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof that would be prohibited by Law.
 
As an inducement to Discovery to enter into this Agreement, Pearl hereby represents and warrants to Discovery, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing, as follows:
SECTION 7.01. . Pearl has been duly organized and is validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation, and has all necessary power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Due Organization of Pearl
SECTION 7.02. . This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, the performance by Pearl of its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and the consummation by Pearl of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of Pearl. This Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party has been validly executed and delivered by Pearl and constitutes valid and binding obligations of Pearl, enforceable against Pearl in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization of Agreements; Enforceability
SECTION 7.03. . The execution and delivery by Pearl of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, the compliance by Pearl with all the provisions hereof and thereof, the performance by Pearl of all of its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of the partnership agreement or other constituent documents of Pearl; or (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to Pearl.
Absence of Conflicts
SECTION 7.04. . To the knowledge of Pearl, there is no Action before or brought by any Governmental Authority now pending against or affecting Pearl which could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party or the performance by Pearl of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
Absence of Proceedings
SECTION 7.05. . To the knowledge of Pearl, the execution, delivery and performance by Pearl of this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party and the compliance by Pearl with all of the provisions hereof and thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby do not and will not require any further Authorization, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of the Closing.
Absence of Further Requirements
SECTION 7.06. . (a) Pearl acknowledges and understands that (i) the Discovery Shares, the Warrants, and upon issuance, the Warrant Shares, have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act or under any state securities Laws (other than in accordance with the resale registration rights provided for in the Registration Rights Agreement) and are being offered and sold in reliance upon federal and state exemptions for transactions not involving any public offering, (ii) such exemptions depend in part upon, and such Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares are being sold in reliance on, the representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement, (iii) Pearl may have to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares for an indefinite period of time because the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares must be held indefinitely unless subsequently registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities Laws or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and (iv) a restrictive legend evidencing these restrictions shall be placed on all certificates evidencing the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares.
Investment Representations
 
(b) Pearl is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act, a sophisticated investor and, by virtue of its business or financial experience, is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment in the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares. Pearl has been provided an opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from representatives of Discovery concerning the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the purchase of the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares contemplated hereby.
(c) Pearl is acquiring the Discovery Shares, Warrants and Warrant Shares for the purpose of investment and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof that would be prohibited by Law.
SECTION 8.01. . Discovery covenants and agrees that, between the date hereof and the time of the Closing, neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries shall conduct its business relating to the operation and ownership of the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, other than in the ordinary course of business and consistent with Discovery's and such Subsidiary's prior practice, except for such conduct related to the anticipated separation of the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries from Discovery and its Subsidiaries and as otherwise contemplated by the terms of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements. In addition to and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Discovery covenants and agrees that between the date hereof and the time of the Closing, without the prior written consent of Oyster, except as set forth in Section 8.01 of the Disclosure Schedule, neither Discovery nor any Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiary shall:
Conduct of Discovery Business Prior to the Closing
(a) adopt or propose any change in its charter or by-laws;
(b) merge or consolidate with, or sell a substantial portion of its assets to, any other Person except in compliance with the requirements of Section 8.09 hereof;
(c) declare, set aside, make or pay any dividend or other distribution, payable in cash, stock, property or otherwise, with respect to any of its capital stock;
(d) reclassify, combine, split, subdivide or redeem, or purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of its capital stock, except for the repurchase of shares of Discovery Common Stock issued to employees of Discovery or its Subsidiaries or the cancellation of Stock Options in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice under the applicable Plans;
(e) except with respect to assets and liabilities that constitute Excluded Assets and Excluded Liabilities, (i) acquire (including by merger, consolidation, or acquisition of stock or assets or any other business combination) any corporation, partnership, other business organization or any division thereof; (ii) incur any Indebtedness or issue any debt securities or assume, guarantee or endorse, or otherwise become responsible for, the obligations of any person, or make any loans or advances, except as set forth in the Bridge Funding Agreement, or grant any security interest in any of its assets, other than in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice; (iii) enter into any Material Discovery Contract other than in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice; (iv) authorize any capital expenditure related to the FoundryCo Assets in excess of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or other expenditure except expenditures contemplated by the Bridge Funding Agreement; or (v) enter into or amend any contract, agreement, commitment or arrangement with respect to any matter set forth in this Section 8.01(e);
 
(f) except as required by applicable Law, take any action, other than reasonable and usual actions in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice, with respect to accounting policies or procedures relating to the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries;
(g) pay, discharge or satisfy any claim, liability or obligation (absolute, accrued, asserted or unasserted, contingent or otherwise) that constitutes an Assumed Liability, other than in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice;
(h) with respect to the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, take any action to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of any material assets or property that constitute, FoundryCo Assets, except (i) pursuant to existing contracts or commitments, (ii) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (provided that the entering into of licenses or covenants not to sue in respect of Patents, other than in the context of product sales to customers or product development efforts or similar business arrangements, is not considered ordinary course of business), and (iii) sales of equipment for the production of 200mm wafers; provided, however, in the event that prior to the Closing, Discovery settles any Claim or Action proceeding in process as of the date hereof, or is in negotiation to enter into any Patent cross license at the time of the date hereof, then Discovery may as part of such settlement of an existing Claim, or as part of the resolution of an existing negotiation, grant the counterparty (including any applicable Subsidiaries and Affiliates of such counterparty) a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, non-transferable portfolio license under and to all of Discovery's Patents, and no consent from the parties hereto shall be required so long as Discovery (a) does not bind FoundryCo to any restrictions, obligations or encumbrances other than granting a non-exclusive license in accordance with this Section 8.01(i), and (b) obtains a Patent license for FoundryCo under which (i) FoundryCo will obtain a foundry license under or to the same Patents that Discovery licenses from the counterparty, (ii) FoundryCo will not be obligated to pay any royalties or fees to such counterparty if Discovery is not paying the same royalties or fees, and (iii) the scope of the license to FoundryCo will not be dependent on FoundryCo remaining affiliated with Discovery;
(j) issue or sell any equity securities or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, other than (i) grants or sales of Discovery Common Stock, restricted stock units, or options to purchase Discovery Common Stock pursuant to the Stock Option Plans in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice to persons other than the employees who will receive offers to become Transferred Employees pursuant to Section 10.01, (ii) shares of Discovery Common Stock issued upon exercise or vesting of employee stock options or restricted stock units that are described in the Discovery SEC Documents and are outstanding on the date hereof or upon exercise or vesting of employee stock options granted in compliance with clause (i) above and with Section 3.09, or (iii) shares of Discovery Common Stock issued upon conversion of any convertible securities outstanding as of the date hereof and described in the Discovery SEC Documents or issued
 
in compliance with this Section 8.01 or (iv) sales of Discovery Common Stock or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for Discovery Common Stock in underwritten public offerings or in Rule 144A transactions in a manner consistent with Discovery's past practice for these offerings, which manner shall include sales to multiple buyers, none of which acquire in such offering the equivalent, on a fully diluted, as-converted basis, more than four-point-nine percent (4.9%) of the outstanding voting securities of Discovery;
(k) except as required by applicable Law, take any action or enter into any agreement that could reasonably be expected to jeopardize or materially delay the consummation of the Closing;
(l) take any action that could constitute a material default under, a termination (other than a termination in accordance with the terms thereof) of, or a material breach of, any Material Discovery Contracts or Material FoundryCo Contracts;
(m) other than in the ordinary course of business, and as disclosed to Oyster and Pearl and consistent with Article X hereof, increase the compensation payable or to become payable or the benefits provided to the Transferred Employees (except as required by applicable Law or in accordance with the terms of a collective agreement or other similar agreement as in effect as of the date hereof), or, except in accordance with agreements existing as of the date hereof or as required by applicable Law, grant any severance or termination pay to, or enter into any employment or severance agreement with, any Transferred Employee (except for agreements entered into with new employees in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or establish, adopt, enter into or amend any collective bargaining, collective agreement, bonus, profit-sharing, thrift, compensation, stock option, restricted stock, pension, retirement, deferred compensation, employment, termination, severance or other plan, agreement, trust, fund, policy or arrangement covering or for the benefit of any Transferred Employee; or
(n) agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
SECTION 8.02. . (a) Discovery shall form FoundryCo and its applicable Subsidiaries and shall take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action to incorporate, capitalize and organize FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries such that, upon Closing, FoundryCo and its applicable Subsidiaries shall have the legal power and authority to own or acquire the FoundryCo Assets and assume the Assumed Liabilities as contemplated by the Transaction Documents.
Organization of FoundryCo; Capital Structure
(b) Discovery shall cause FoundryCo to file the Memorandum and Articles of Association with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands, which Memorandum and Articles of Association shall be in effect at the Closing, and Discovery shall take all other appropriate action such that, upon Closing, the consolidated FoundryCo capitalization will be as set forth on the FoundryCo Capitalization Table.
(c) Discovery shall, prior to Closing, cause FoundryCo to authorize the issue of Class A Ordinary Shares, Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares on the terms set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and authorize the issuance and sale of the FoundryCo Convertible Notes on the terms set forth herein and therein.
SECTION 8.03. . Discovery and Oyster each agree to designate two (2) representatives to serve on a committee to advise FoundryCo on issues related to FoundryCo's preparation to be ready to commence business at the Closing. The committee members shall be indemnified from liability prior to Closing by Discovery for the Discovery designees, and by Oyster for the Oyster designees, and following Closing, by FoundryCo to the maximum extent permissible by applicable Law, and shall enter into agreements with FoundryCo with respect to indemnification and the advancement of expenses on customary terms.
FoundryCo Executive Committee
SECTION 8.04. . As soon as practicable after the date hereof, Discovery shall prepare and will request Ernst & Young LLP to audit the Carve Out Financial Statements, and shall deliver the audited Carve Out Financial Statements to Oyster and Pearl at least ten (10) days prior to the Closing Date.
Preparation of Carve Out Financial Statements
 
SECTION 8.05. . From the date hereof until the Closing, upon reasonable notice, Discovery shall cause its officers, directors, and employees, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause its agents, representatives, accountants and counsel to: (i) afford the officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel, financing sources and representatives of Oyster and Pearl who are subject to an appropriate confidentiality agreement reasonable access, during normal business hours, to the offices, properties, plants, other facilities, books and records of Discovery relating to the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, including access to enter upon such properties, plants and facilities to investigate and collect air, surface water, groundwater and soil samples or to conduct any other type of environmental assessment, and to those officers, directors, employees, agents, accountants and counsel of Discovery who have any knowledge relating to the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and (ii) furnish to the officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel, financing sources and representatives of Oyster and Pearl who are subject to an appropriate confidentiality agreement such additional financial and operating data and other information regarding the assets, properties, liabilities and goodwill of the FoundryCo Assets, the Assumed Liabilities and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries (or legible copies thereof) as Oyster or and Pearl may from time to time reasonably request.
Access to Information
SECTION 8.06.
NYSE Required Approval
(a) . Discovery, acting through its board of directors, shall, in accordance with applicable Law and Discovery's charter and by-laws, (i) duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a special meeting of its stockholders as promptly as practicable following the date hereof (the "") for the purposes of voting on the NYSE Required Approval, and (ii) (A) include in the Proxy Statement, and not subsequently withdraw or modify the unanimous recommendation of the board of directors that the stockholders of Discovery approve and adopt the NYSE Required Approval, and (B) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such approval and adoption.
Stockholders' Meeting
Stockholders' Meeting
(b) . Promptly following the date hereof, Discovery shall file with the SEC under the Exchange Act a proxy statement (the "") soliciting proxies to take action on the NYSE Required Approval at the Stockholders Meeting, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to have the Proxy Statement cleared by the SEC as promptly as practicable. Pearl and Discovery shall cooperate with each other in the preparation of the Proxy Statement, and Discovery shall notify Pearl of the receipt of any comments of the SEC with respect to the Proxy Statement and of any requests by the SEC for any amendment or supplement thereto or for additional information and shall provide to Pearl promptly copies of all correspondence between Discovery or any representative of Discovery and the SEC with respect thereto. Discovery shall give Pearl and its counsel a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the Proxy Statement, including all amendments and supplements thereto, prior to such documents being filed with the SEC or disseminated to Persons entitled to vote at the Stockholders' Meeting, and shall give Pearl and its counsel a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on all responses to requests for additional information and replies to comments prior to their being filed with, or sent to, the SEC. Discovery and Pearl agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts, after consultation with the other Parties, to respond promptly to all such comments of and requests by the SEC and to cause the Proxy Statement and all required amendments and supplements thereto to be mailed at the earliest practicable time to the Persons entitled to vote at the Stockholders' Meeting.
Proxy Statement
Proxy Statement
SECTION 8.07. . (a) Discovery, Oyster and Pearl shall use their commercially reasonable efforts and shall cooperate fully in promptly seeking to obtain all Required Authorizations.
Authorizations; Notices and Consents
(b) Discovery shall promptly give all required notices to third parties and otherwise use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the Required Consents and such other third party consents and estoppel certificates as Oyster may reasonably deem necessary or desirable in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
(c) Oyster and Pearl shall cooperate and use their commercially reasonable efforts to assist Discovery in seeking to obtain all Required Authorizations and Required Consents, and such other third party consents and estoppel certificates; provided, however, that neither Oyster nor Pearl shall have any obligation to give any guarantee or other consideration of any nature in connection with any such notice, consent or estoppel certificate or to consent to any change in the terms of any agreement or arrangement which Oyster or Pearl, in their reasonable sole discretion, may deem adverse to their respective interests or which Oyster or Pearl, after consultation with FoundryCo's management, may deem adverse to the interests of FoundryCo.
(d) Each Party agrees to engage in commercially reasonable efforts to secure CFIUS Clearance. Such efforts shall include, to the extent necessary, the execution of Mitigation Agreements containing any terms customarily included in such Mitigation Agreements; provided, however, that no Party shall be required to enter into any agreement that: (i) requires Pearl to hold its ownership interests in Discovery indirectly, such as through proxy holders or in a voting trust; (ii) materially interferes with Oyster's ability to participate in the management of FoundryCo pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements; (iii) requires Discovery or FoundryCo to dispose of any material portion of their respective businesses, operations, assets or product lines (or any combination thereof) other than any disposition that is contemplated in this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements; or (iv) otherwise is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
SECTION 8.08. . Prior to the Closing, Discovery shall promptly notify Oyster and Pearl in writing of (a) all events, circumstances, facts and occurrences arising subsequent to the date of this Agreement which have resulted in any misrepresentation or breach of a warranty or covenant of Discovery in this Agreement or which have had the effect of making any representation or warranty of Discovery in this Agreement untrue or incorrect in any respect and (b) all other material developments affecting the FoundryCo Assets or the Assumed Liabilities, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the business, financial condition, operations, results of operations, customer or supplier relations, employee relations, projections or prospects of the Discovery Business, or, to the extent Discovery has knowledge, the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities.
Notice of Developments
SECTION 8.09. . (a) Discovery agrees that between the date of this Agreement and the earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions hereof, neither Discovery nor any of its Subsidiaries shall, nor shall Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries authorize or permit any of its or their officers, directors, employees, investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, consultants or other agents or advisors to, directly or indirectly:
No Solicitation
 
 
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 8.09, the board of directors of Discovery, directly or indirectly through advisors, agents or other intermediaries, may (i) participate in discussions, conversations, negotiations or other communications with a Third Person regarding, and furnish information to, a Third Person that has made, in writing, a bona fide Discovery Change of Control Proposal and (ii) enter into an agreement with any Third Person relating to a Discovery Change of Control Transaction, if, and only if the board of directors of Discovery has: (A) determined, in its good faith judgment after considering advice from its outside legal counsel, that failure to furnish such information or enter into such discussions or such agreement would be
 
inconsistent with its fiduciary obligations to Discovery and its stockholders under applicable Law; (B) provided written notice to Oyster and Pearl of the identity of the Third Person making, and the material terms of any such proposal, and of Discovery's intent to furnish information or enter into discussions with such Third Person at least three (3) Business Days prior to taking any such action; (C) obtained from such Third Person an executed confidentiality agreement on customary terms (it being understood that such confidentiality agreement and any related agreements shall not include any provision calling for any exclusive right to negotiate with such party or having the effect of prohibiting Discovery from satisfying its obligations under this Agreement); and (D) promptly provided to Oyster and Pearl any non-public information concerning Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries provided to any such Third Person which was not previously provided to Oyster and Pearl. Discovery shall keep Oyster and Pearl informed on a prompt basis of any material changes in the terms or status of any Discovery Change of Control Proposal.
SECTION 8.10. . Discovery shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that (i) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements do not constitute an event or events of default under the Term Loan Facility Agreement or other Indebtedness of Discovery, and (ii) to the extent the transactions contemplated under this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements may constitute an event or events of default under the Term Loan Facility Agreement or other Indebtedness of Discovery, to secure the necessary waivers or consents of the lenders thereunder, or their agents, as necessary to ensure that no event or events of default shall occur or continue unremedied as of the Closing.
Discovery Indebtedness
SECTION 8.11. . Prior to the Closing, Discovery shall comply with the requirements of all applicable bulk sale, bulk transfer or similar laws in all jurisdictions.
Bulk Transfer Laws
SECTION 8.12. . Prior to the Closing, Discovery shall cause any contract or arrangement that is disclosed (or should have been disclosed) in Section 4.13(a)(ix) of the Disclosure Schedule to be terminated or otherwise addressed in a manner satisfactory to Oyster.
Related Party Transactions
SECTION 8.13. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, all Conveyance Taxes incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid either by Discovery or on behalf of Discovery by FoundryCo, with a corresponding adjustment pursuant to Section 2.08(d). The Parties shall cooperate in timely making all filings, Tax Returns, reports and forms as may be required to comply with the provisions of Laws related to Conveyance Taxes.
Conveyance Taxes
SECTION 8.14. . Each of the Parties shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, do or cause to be done all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law, and to execute and deliver such documents and other papers, as may be required to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party and consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Further Action
SECTION 8.15. . (a) Discovery assumes the risk of loss or damage by fire or other casualty to any Owned Real Property, any Leased Real Property or any Tangible Personal Property prior to the Closing. In the event that any Owned Real Property or Leased Real Property shall suffer any material fire, casualty or injury prior to the Closing, Discovery agrees to (i) repair the damage at its sole cost and expense before the date set for delivery of the instrument of transfer or assignment, as applicable, hereunder, or (ii) make an appropriate reduction in the Purchase Price based on a reasonable approximation of the cost of such repair as agreed by the Parties, or (iii) assign to FoundryCo the proceeds of any insurances covering such fire, casualty or injury, provided that any deficiency in such proceeds shall result in an appropriate reduction in the Purchase Price based on a reasonable approximation of the cost of such repair as agreed by the Parties or, in the event the Parties cannot agree on the amount of such deficiency or reduction, an adjustment in the Purchase Price pursuant to Section 2.08. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no mitigation of any casualty loss to any Owned Real Property, any Leased Real Property or any Tangible Personal Property before delivery of the applicable instrument of transfer or assignment shall limit the ability of Pearl or Oyster to pursue any remedies under this Agreement to the extent
Risk of Loss
 
that such casualty loss would cause Discovery to be in breach of any representation, warranty or covenant under this Agreement or to the extent that any such casualty loss would otherwise cause the failure of any condition to the obligations of Pearl or Oyster to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(b) The risk of loss or damage to the Owned Real Property or the Leased Real Property by condemnation prior to the Closing is assumed by Discovery. In the event any condemnation proceeding is commenced prior to the Closing, Discovery shall assign to FoundryCo at the Closing all of Discovery's right, title and interest in and to all awards made in respect of such condemnation and shall pay over to FoundryCo all amounts theretofore received by Discovery in connection with such condemnation.
SECTION 9.01. . For so long as Pearl and its Permitted Transferees beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least ten percent (10%) of the outstanding shares of Discovery Common Stock, it is the intention of the Parties that Pearl shall have the right to designate a representative (the "") to the board of directors of Discovery. Discovery shall, upon Pearl's request, cause the Pearl Director Designee to be promptly appointed or elected to the board of directors of Discovery including, if necessary, by amending its by-laws to increase the number of authorized directors, or securing the resignation of an incumbent director as necessary to enable the Pearl Director Designee to be elected or appointed by the board of directors of Discovery to the vacant seat created thereby. For so long as Pearl shall have the right to designate the Pearl Director Designee pursuant to this Section 9.01, Discovery shall, subject to applicable Law, cause the board of directors of Discovery (or a nominating committee thereof) to nominate the Pearl Director Designee to stand for election at any meeting of the stockholders (or pursuant to the solicitation of written consents in lieu thereof) of Discovery at which the seat available for or held by the Pearl Director Designee is up for election at such meeting (or is the subject of such solicitation for action by written consent of the stockholders of Discovery). Discovery shall, subject to Section 14(f) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14f-1 promulgated thereunder, take all actions required pursuant to Section 14(f) and Rule 14f-1 as is necessary to enable the Pearl Director Designee to be elected to the board of directors of Discovery. The provisions of this Section 9.01 are in addition to and shall not limit any rights that Pearl or any of its Permitted Transferees may have as a holder or beneficial owner of Discovery Common Stock as a matter of Law with respect to the election of directors or otherwise.
Pearl Director Designee
Pearl Director Designee
SECTION 9.02. . (a) For a period of ten (10) years after the Closing, the Parties shall cause FoundryCo to, and FoundryCo shall, (i) retain the books and records relating to the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities relating to periods prior to the Closing in a manner reasonably consistent with the prior practice of Discovery and (ii) upon reasonable notice, afford the officers, employees, agents and representatives of Discovery and Oyster reasonable access (including the right to make, at the requesting Party's expense, photocopies), during normal business hours, to such books and records, including employment records.
Access to Information
(b) For a period of ten years following the Closing, Discovery shall (i) retain the books and records including electronic data (e.g. relevant financial data in the ERP system) of Discovery which relate to the FoundryCo Assets and the Assumed Liabilities, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities and their operations for periods prior to the Closing and which shall not otherwise have been delivered to FoundryCo and (ii) upon reasonable notice, afford the officers, employees, agents and representatives of FoundryCo and Oyster reasonable access (including access to electronic data and including the right to make photocopies, at the requesting Party's expense), during normal business hours, to such books and records, including employment records.
SECTION 9.03. F. (a) Each of the Parties shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, do or cause to be done all the things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law, and to execute and deliver such documents and other papers, as may be required
urther Assurances
 
to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party and consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 9.03(a), Discovery agrees that, in the event that any consent, approval or authorization necessary or desirable to preserve for the benefit of FoundryCo any right or benefit under any lease, license, contract, commitment or other agreement or arrangement to which Discovery or any Subsidiary is a party is not obtained prior to the Closing, Discovery shall, subsequent to the Closing, cooperate with FoundryCo in attempting to obtain such consent, approval or authorization as promptly thereafter as practicable. If such consent, approval or authorization cannot be obtained, Discovery shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to provide FoundryCo with the rights and benefits of the affected lease, license, contract, commitment or other agreement or arrangement for the term of such lease, license, contract or other agreement or arrangement, and, if Discovery provides such rights and benefits, FoundryCo, as the case may be, shall assume the obligations and burdens thereunder.
SECTION 9.04. . Upon issuance of the Discovery Shares and the Warrant Shares, Discovery shall file a notice of issuance to cause the Discovery Shares and the Warrant Shares to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Authorization for Listing
SECTION 9.05. . Oyster and Pearl agree that from the date hereof until the earlier of (a) the fifth (5
Standstill
th
) anniversary of the Closing Date, or (b) such time as Oyster and Pearl, together with their respective Affiliates and Permitted Transferees, beneficially own in the aggregate less than ten percent (10%) of the outstanding voting securities of Discovery, neither Oyster, Pearl, nor their respective Affiliates or Permitted Transferees shall, except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement or unless specifically invited in writing by the board of directors of Discovery, in any manner, directly or indirectly:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oyster and Pearl also agree during such period not to request that Discovery or any of its representatives, directly or indirectly, amend or waive any provision of this paragraph (including this sentence), provided, that either Oyster or Pearl may ask Discovery whether it would wish to entertain a proposal for the acquisition of Discovery, but may not make such a proposal absent Discovery's affirmative response to such question. Nothing in this Section 9.05 shall prohibit or prevent Oyster, Pearl or any of their respective Affiliates and Permitted Transferees from voting any securities at their sole discretion on matters submitted to the stockholders of Discovery for a vote, or from voting in favor of, or tendering any Discovery securities held by any of them into, any extraordinary transaction involving Discovery or a substantial portion of its securities or assets.
SECTION 9.06. . From and after the Closing Date, until such time as Pearl (together with any Permitted Transferees to whom Pearl has transferred beneficial ownership of Discovery Common Stock) shall beneficially own (within the meaning of the Exchange Act), in the aggregate, less than ten percent (10%) of the Discovery Common Stock then outstanding, regardless of whether Pearl is an "affiliate" of Discovery (as defined in Rule 144(a)(1), promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act), Pearl and such Permitted Transferees may only resell shares of Discovery Common Stock (i) in connection with a bona fide pledge or other hypothecation or transfer in connection with a financing transaction secured by a pledge of Pearl's Discovery Common Stock, (ii) by means of an underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or (iii) pursuant to Rule 144. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Pearl or its Permitted Transferees may sell or transfer, including transfer by operation of law, shares of Discovery Common Stock to any Permitted Transferee. Pearl shall provide Discovery with notice of such sale or transfer, and upon such sale or transfer, any such Permitted Transferee shall be bound by the provisions of this Section 9.06 and shall provide a written agreement or undertaking to such effect, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Discovery.
Restrictions on Resale of Discovery Shares
SECTION 9.07. . (a) Each Party (i) shall, and shall cause its officers, directors, employees, attorneys, accountants, auditors and agents, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information (as defined herein) (collectively "") and its Affiliates and their Representatives, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information, to maintain in strictest confidence any and all confidential information relating to FoundryCo, any other Party, or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is proprietary to FoundryCo, any other Party, or any of their respective Subsidiaries as applicable, or otherwise not available to the general public, including information about properties, employees, finances, businesses and operations of FoundryCo, any other Party, or any of their respective Subsidiaries and all notes, analyses, compilations, studies, forecasts, interpretations or other documents prepared by a receiving Party or its Representatives which contain, reflect or are based upon, in whole or in part, the information furnished to or acquired by such Party ("") and (ii) shall not disclose, and shall cause its Representatives, not to disclose, Confidential Information to any Person other than to another Party, FoundryCo and their respective Subsidiaries (including the agents, employees and attorneys thereof and the members of the board of directors of FoundryCo), except only to the extent such disclosure is required by applicable Law, or legal process (including pursuant to any listing agreement with, or the rules or regulations of, any national securities exchange on which any securities of such Party (or any Affiliate thereof) are listed or traded) in which event the Party making such disclosure or whose Affiliates or Representatives are making such disclosure shall so notify the other Parties as promptly as practicable (and, if possible, prior to making such disclosure) and shall seek confidential treatment of such information if reasonably requested.
Confidentiality of Proprietary Information
Representatives
Confidential Information
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 9.07(a):
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided for in this Section 9.07, Confidential Information received hereunder shall be used by each Party and its Affiliates solely for use in connection with such Party's investment in FoundryCo and with respect to FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries.
(d) The obligations of each of Oyster and Discovery under this Section 9.07 shall survive for as long as such Party remains a shareholder of FoundryCo, and for two (2) years after such Party ceases to be a shareholder of FoundryCo, notwithstanding such Party's ceasing to be a shareholder of FoundryCo or any Person ceasing to be an Affiliate of such Party. The obligations of Pearl under this Section 9.07 shall survive for as long as the obligations of Oyster survive hereunder.
SECTION 9.08. . From and after the date hereof, Discovery shall not settle, or make any binding offer to settle, any material Claim or Action related to the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, including Claims or Actions related to Excluded Liabilities, unless such settlement would not result in any Encumbrances or Liabilities on any of the FoundryCo Assets, or on any member of the FoundryCo Group or any Encumbrance on the conduct of the business of the FoundryCo Group as proposed to be conducted by this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements or the FoundryCo Business Plan, or include any acknowledgment of validity or invalidity, enforceability or lack thereof, infringement or lack thereof, or interpretation of any claim with regard to any of the Intellectual Property related to such Claim or Action. Except as otherwise prohibited by applicable law, Discovery agrees to (i) promptly notify FoundryCo when it engages in settlement discussions with respect to any such Claims or Actions, and (ii) keep FoundryCo regularly apprised with respect to any such settlement discussions. The provisions of this Section shall apply to any antitrust or unfair competition Claims or Actions by Discovery against or involving Intel Corporation (including its Affiliates), and notwithstanding herein to the contrary, any such Claim or Action involving Intel Corporation may not be settled without the prior, written consent of FoundryCo, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Settlement of Claims by Discovery
SECTION 9.09. . Discovery and FoundryCo shall enter FoundryCo as the limited partners in the commercial registers of AMTC and BAC as promptly as practicable after the Closing Date.
German Registration
 
SECTION 9.10. . After the Closing, FoundryCo will use its commercially reasonable efforts (i) to take such actions as may be required to avoid, and (ii) not to take any actions that would result in, the repayment of investment grants and subsidies received by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries prior to the Closing.
Repayment of Subsidies
SECTION 10.01. .
Offers and Transfers of Employment
(a) . At least thirty (30) days prior to the Closing Date (or such lesser time as may be appropriate for employees who are hired or return from a leave of absence within thirty (30) days of the Closing Date or as Discovery and FoundryCo may otherwise agree), FoundryCo shall extend, or shall cause its applicable Subsidiaries to extend an offer of employment to each Transferred Employee providing services in the United States listed on Section 10.01(a) of the Disclosure Schedule (the ""), which schedule may be updated from time to time as may reasonably be agreed by the parties. Effective as of the Closing Date, FoundryCo shall hire, or shall cause its applicable Subsidiaries to hire each U.S. Transferred Employee who timely accepts the offer of employment extended by FoundryCo.
Transferred Employees in the United States
U.S. Transferred Employees
(b) . (A) Effective as of the Closing Date, FoundryCo agrees to employ in the particular jurisdiction, or cause its applicable Subsidiaries to employ, (A) each Transferred Employee providing services outside of the United States listed Section 10.01(b) of the Disclosure Schedule who accepts an offer of employment from FoundryCo and (B) each Transferred Employee providing services outside of the United States listed on Section 10.01(b) of the Disclosure Schedule, which schedule may be updated from time to time as may reasonably be agreed by the parties (together with the Transferred Employees referenced in clause (A), the ""), who becomes employed by FoundryCo pursuant to applicable Law, applicable transfer Laws, including the European Union Acquired Rights Directive (as amended and as implemented from country to country from time to time) (such transfer laws and regulations, collectively, the ""). Discovery and FoundryCo further agree to fully and timely cooperate in the transition activities and also to comply (and cause their applicable Subsidiaries to comply) with the Transfer Laws, which cooperation may include the execution of further agreements between appropriate Subsidiaries of Discovery and FoundryCo on a country by country basis.
Transferred Employees Outside of the United States
Non-U.S. Transferred Employees
Transfer Laws
SECTION 10.02. . To the greatest extent permitted by applicable Law, FoundryCo shall provide service credit for all periods of service by the U.S. Transferred Employees and Non-U.S. Transferred Employee who accept an offer of employment with, or whose employment otherwise transfers to, FoundryCo (collectively, the "") under FoundryCo's employee policies and plans except to the extent such service credit would result in the duplication of benefit accrual for the same period of service. FoundryCo shall be responsible for all Liabilities, salaries, benefits and similar employer obligations that arise after Closing under FoundryCo's compensation and benefit plans and policies for all Transferred Employees. Except as may otherwise be agreed in writing among the Parties, FoundryCo shall be responsible for liabilities with respect to the termination of employment of any Transferred Employees by FoundryCo after the Closing, including health care continuation coverage with respect to plans established or maintained by FoundryCo after the Closing to the extent that the Transferred Employees participate therein, and damages or settlements arising out of any Claims of wrongful, constructive or illegal termination or dismissal by FoundryCo following the Closing, and for complying with the requirements of all applicable Laws with respect to any such termination by FoundryCo after the Closing.
Transferred Employees
Transferred Employees
SECTION 10.03.
Equity Awards Held by Transferred Employees
(a) Options. Each Transferred Employee who holds an unvested Stock Option that is issued and outstanding as of the Closing (each, a ""), shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law be entitled to be paid by FoundryCo, with respect to each Transferred Employee Stock Option, an amount in
Transferred Employee Stock Option
 
cash equal to the (i) the excess, if any, of the closing price for a share of Discovery Common Stock on the Business Day immediately prior to the Closing over the applicable per share exercise price of such Transferred Employee Stock Option, or, (ii) if there shall be no such excess, the binomial value of such Stock Option (as determined by FoundryCo in good faith ), less such amounts as are required to be withheld or deducted under the Code or any provision of U.S. state or local tax Law with respect to the making of such payment. FoundryCo shall pay the Transferred Employees who hold such Transferred Employee Stock Options the cash payments described in this Section 10.03(a) within ninety (90) days following the Closing (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day that follows thereafter), but in no event later than December 31 of the year in which the Closing occurs, subject to the Transferred Employee remaining in the continuous employ of FoundryCo through the payment date.
(b) Restricted Stock Units. Each Transferred Employee who holds, immediately prior to the Closing, an unvested restricted stock unit granted under the Stock Option Plans that is cancelled or expires in accordance with its terms at or immediately after the Closing (each, a ""), shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, be entitled to be paid by FoundryCo, with respect to each Transferred Employee RSU, an amount in cash equal to the closing price for a share of Discovery Common Stock on the Business Day immediately prior to the Closing, less such amounts as are required to be withheld or deducted under the Code or any provision of U.S. state or local tax Law with respect to the making of such payment. FoundryCo shall pay the Transferred Employees who hold such Transferred Employee RSUs the cash payments described in this Section 10.03(b) within ninety (90) days following the Closing (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day that follows thereafter), but in no event later than December 31 of the year in which the Closing occurs, subject to the Transferred Employee remaining in the continuous employ of FoundryCo through the payment date.
Transferred Employee RSU
SECTION 11.01. . The obligations of Discovery to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or written waiver by Discovery, at or prior to the Closing, of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Discovery
(a) .
Representations, Warranties and Covenants
 
 
 
 
(b) . All Required Authorizations shall have been obtained and shall remain in full force and effect; except for such failures to obtain such Required Authorizations that would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
Required Authorizations
(c) . No Action shall have been commenced or threatened by or before any Governmental Authority against any of the Parties, seeking to restrain or materially and adversely alter the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which, in the reasonable, good faith determination of Discovery, is likely to render it impossible or unlawful to consummate such transactions or which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
No Proceeding or Litigation
(d). Discovery shall have received from Shearman & Sterling LLP a legal opinion, addressed to Discovery and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit Q, and from Maples and Calder a legal opinion, addressed to Discovery and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit R; and
Legal Opinions
(e) . The stockholders of Discovery shall have approved and adopted the NYSE Required Approval.
NYSE Required Approval
SECTION 11.02. . The obligations of Oyster to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or written waiver by Oyster, at or prior to the Closing, of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Oyster
(a) .
Representations, Warranties and Covenants
 
 
 
(b) . All Required Authorizations shall have been obtained and shall remain in full force and effect, and Discovery and FoundryCo shall have received, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Oyster, all Required Consents, except for such failures to obtain such Required Authorizations and Required Consents that would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
Required Authorizations and Required Consents
(c) . No Action shall have been commenced or threatened by or before any Governmental Authority against any of the Parties, seeking to restrain or materially and adversely alter the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which, in the reasonable, good faith determination of Oyster, is likely to render it impossible or unlawful to consummate such transactions or which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
No Proceeding or Litigation
(d) . Oyster shall have received: (i) from Latham & Watkins LLP a legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit M; (ii) from the general counsel of Discovery, a legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit N; (iii) from Richards, Layton & Finger a legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit O; and (iv) from Walkers a legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit P;
Legal Opinions
(e). The IBM Development and License Agreement shall remain in full force and effect as of the Closing and shall not have been amended in any way adverse to the rights of FoundryCo thereunder;
IBM Agreement
(f) . Discovery shall have confirmed to Pearl in writing that Discovery (i) shall not have received a Discovery Change of Control Proposal, and (ii) shall not have exercised its fiduciary duties pursuant to Section 8.09 to discuss a Discovery Change of Control Proposal with any Third Person, or, if Discovery has (x) received such Discovery Change of Control Proposal or (y) exercised its fiduciary duties pursuant to Section 8.09 to discuss such Discovery Change of Control Proposal with any Third Person, Discovery shall have confirmed to Pearl in writing that Discovery shall not have agreed to, or be in any discussions with, any Third Person with respect to a Discovery Change of Control Transaction and that any Third Person that has made a Discovery Change of Control Proposal shall have withdrawn it;
No Discovery Change of Control Proposal
(g) . No event or events shall have occurred, or be reasonably likely to occur, which, individually or in the aggregate, have, or are reasonably likely to have, a Material Adverse Effect; and
No Material Adverse Effect
(h) . All of the conditions to Pearl's obligations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been fulfilled, or waived in writing by Pearl, at or prior to the Closing.
Satisfaction of Pearl Conditions
SECTION 11.03. . The obligations of Pearl to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or written waiver by Pearl, at or prior to the Closing, of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Pearl
(a) .
Representations, Warranties and Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . All Required Authorizations shall have been obtained and shall remain in full force and effect, and Discovery and FoundryCo shall have received, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Pearl, all Required Consents, except for such failures to obtain such Required Authorizations and Required Consents that would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
Required Authorizations and Required Consents
(c) . No Action shall have been commenced or threatened by or before any Governmental Authority against any of the Parties, seeking to restrain or materially and adversely alter the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which, in the reasonable, good faith determination of Pearl, is likely to render it impossible or unlawful to consummate such transactions or which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
No Proceeding or Litigation
(d) . Pearl shall have received: (i) from Latham & Watkins LLP a legal opinion, addressed to Pearl and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit M; (ii) from the general counsel of Discovery, a legal opinion, addressed to Pearl and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit N; and (iii) and from Walkers a legal opinion, addressed to Pearl and dated as of the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit P;
Legal Opinions
(e) . The stockholders of Discovery shall have approved and adopted the NYSE Required Approval;
NYSE Required Approval
(f) . If requested by Pearl prior to Closing, the Pearl Directory Designee shall have been validly appointed or elected to the board of directors of Discovery, with such appointment or election effective upon Closing.
Pearl Director Designee
(g) . Discovery shall have confirmed to Pearl in writing that Discovery (i) shall not have received a Discovery Change of Control Proposal, and (ii) shall not have exercised its fiduciary duties pursuant to Section 8.09 to discuss a Discovery Change of Control Proposal with any Third Person, or, if Discovery has (x) received such Discovery Change of Control Proposal or (y) exercised its
No Discovery Change of Control Proposal
 
fiduciary duties pursuant to Section 8.09 to discuss such Discovery Change of Control Proposal with any Third Person, Discovery shall have confirmed to Pearl in writing that Discovery shall not have agreed to, or be in any discussions with, any Third Person with respect to a Discovery Change of Control Transaction and that any Third Person that has made a Discovery Change of Control Proposal shall have withdrawn it;
(h) . No event or events shall have occurred, or be reasonably likely to occur, which, individually or in the aggregate, have, or are reasonably likely to have, a Material Adverse Effect; and
No Material Adverse Effect
(i) . All of the conditions to Oyster's obligations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been fulfilled, or waived in writing by Oyster, at or prior to the Closing.
Satisfaction of Oyster Conditions
SECTION 12.01. . (a) The representations and warranties of Discovery contained in Article IV of this Agreement, and the representations and warranties of Discovery contained in the Ancillary Agreements that relate to the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, shall survive the Closing until the second (2
Survival of Representations and Warranties
nd
) anniversary of the Closing; provided, however, that (i) the representations and warranties made pursuant to Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 shall survive indefinitely, (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 3.17, 3.20, 4.12, 4.18, 4.19 and 4.24 shall survive until one hundred twenty (120) days after the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations for any Claims or Liabilities related to such representations and warranties, and (iii) any Claim arising out of the fraudulent misrepresentation by Discovery shall survive until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Neither the period of survival nor the liability of Discovery with respect to Discovery's representations and warranties shall be reduced by any investigation made at any time by or on behalf of Oyster or FoundryCo. If written notice of a Claim has been given by Oyster or FoundryCo to Discovery prior to the expiration of the applicable representations and warranties, then the relevant representations and warranties shall survive as to such Claim, until such Claim has been finally resolved.
(b) Other than as provided in Section 12.01(a), the representations and warranties of Discovery contained in Article III and Article V of this Agreement, and the representations and warranties of Discovery contained in the Ancillary Agreements that relate to the Discovery Business other than the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries or the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, shall survive until the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Closing; provided, however, that (i) the representations and warranties made by Discovery pursuant to Section 5.01 shall survive the Closing indefinitely, (ii) nothing set forth in this Agreement shall limit or preclude Pearl from enforcing any rights it may have pursuant to applicable securities Laws in connection with its purchase of the Discovery Shares, the Warrants or the Warrant Shares from Discovery, and (iii) nothing set forth in this Agreement shall limit or preclude Oyster from enforcing any rights it may have pursuant to applicable securities Laws in connection with its purchase of the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares, or the FoundryCo Convertible Notes from FoundryCo.
SECTION 12.02. . Oyster and FoundryCo and their respective Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (each an "") shall be indemnified and held harmless by Discovery for and against any and all Losses (any Loss by such Persons, an ""), arising out of or resulting from or suffered or incurred by reason of or in connection with:
Indemnification of Oyster and FoundryCo by Discovery
Oyster/FoundryCo Indemnified Party
Oyster/FoundryCo Loss
(a) any misrepresentation or breach of warranty made by Discovery contained in the Transaction Documents (it being understood that, (i) for the purpose of determining whether any Oyster/FoundryCo Losses have arisen out of, or resulted from, or been suffered or occurred as a result of any misrepresentation or breach of any
 
warranty by Discovery that is qualified by "Material Adverse Effect," Discovery shall be deemed to have made such misrepresentation or breached such warranty if the representation or warranty is untrue or incorrect, regardless of whether such misrepresentation or breach has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect, and (ii) for the purpose of determining the amount of Losses attributable to any misrepresentation or breach, such representations and warranties shall be interpreted without giving effect to any limitations or qualifications as to "materiality" (including the word "material") or "Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein);
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement by Discovery contained in the Transaction Documents;
(c) any Third Party Claim to the extent arising out of any action, inaction, event, condition, liability or obligation of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries and occurring or existing prior to the Closing;
(d) any Claims by Intel or its Affiliates related to or arising from (i) the Old Intel Agreement; (ii) the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; (iii) any other agreements, written or otherwise, between Discovery and Intel; (iv) the entry by the Parties into, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements; or (v) patent infringement (or inducement of patent infringement) of the patents licensed by Intel under any of the agreements referenced in subsections (i) through (iv) above in respect of actions taken by or products manufactured and/or sold by FoundryCo while FoundryCo is a "Subsidiary" of Discovery (subject to Section 3.7 of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement), as "Subsidiary" is defined in either the Old Intel Agreement or the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, as applicable; for the avoidance of doubt, in the case of any of the foregoing clauses (i) through (v), whether the conduct, events or conditions giving rise to such Claims or resulting in such Losses occurred or existed either prior to or after the Closing;
(e) with respect to Claims that relate to conditions existing at any time period prior to the Closing (i) any Hazardous Material at, on, under, migrating to or from, or transported to or from the Luther Forest Site excluding any portion thereof that is included in the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, (ii) any Environmental Claim arising at any time that relates in any way to the Luther Forest Site excluding any portion thereof that is included in the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, or (iii) any noncompliance with or violation of any applicable Environmental Law or Environmental Permit relating in any way to the Luther Forest Site excluding any portion thereof that is included in the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, except, in each case, to the extent such Oyster/FoundryCo Losses result from the negligence or willful misconduct of FoundryCo;
(f) with respect to any Claims, whether such Claims relate to conditions that exist or arise prior to or after the Closing (i) any Hazardous Material at, on, under, migrating to or from, or transported to or from the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, (ii) any Environmental Claim arising at any time that relates in any way to the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, or (iii) any noncompliance with or violation of any applicable Environmental Law or Environmental Permit relating in any way to the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, except, in each case to the extent such Oyster/FoundryCo Losses result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of FoundryCo;
(g) any amounts payable by FoundryCo under the AMTC/BAC Guarantees, notwithstanding the assignment to and the assumption of the AMTC/BAC Guarantees by FoundryCo;
(h) any amounts payable by FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries following the Closing for the repayment of investment grants and subsidies received by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries prior to the Closing if such repayment obligations relate to (i) a failure by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries to (A) make, prior to the Closing, capital expenditures required by such investment grants or subsidies or (B) extend the deadline for the making of such capital expenditures to a date that results in such repayment obligation being avoided, or (ii) the failure by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries to maintain required fixed asset levels at or prior to the Closing, including any repayment obligation arising from the disposal of fixed assets prior to the Closing if Discovery fails to reach agreement with the applicable authority to the effect that qualifying investments have been made to offset the sale of such fixed assets prior to the Closing so as to avoid such repayment obligation; or
 
(i) the Excluded Liabilities.
To the extent that Discovery's undertakings set forth in this Section 12.02 may be unenforceable, Discovery shall contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted to contribute under applicable Law to the payment and satisfaction of all Oyster/FoundryCo Losses.
SECTION 12.03. . Pearl and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (each a "") shall be indemnified and held harmless by Discovery for and against any and all Losses (any Loss by such Persons, a ""), arising out of or resulting from or suffered or incurred by reason of or in connection with:
Indemnification of Pearl by Discovery
Pearl Indemnified Party
Pearl Loss
(a) any misrepresentation or breach of warranty made by Discovery contained in Article III and Article V of this Agreement (it being understood that, (i) for the purpose of determining whether any Pearl Losses have arisen out of, or resulted from, or been suffered or occurred as a result of any misrepresentation or breach of any warranty by Discovery that is qualified by "Material Adverse Effect," Discovery shall be deemed to have made such misrepresentation or breached such warranty if the representation or warranty is untrue or incorrect, regardless of whether such misrepresentation or breach has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect, and (ii) for the purpose of determining the amount of Losses attributable to any misrepresentation or breach, such representations and warranties shall be interpreted without giving effect to any limitations or qualifications as to "materiality" (including the word "material") or "Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein);
(b) the breach of any covenant or agreement made by Discovery contained in the Transaction Documents;
(c) any Third Party Claim to the extent arising out of any action, inaction, event, condition, liability or obligation of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries; or
(d) any Claims by Intel or its Affiliates related to or arising from (i) the Old Intel Agreement; (ii) the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; (iii) any other agreements, written or otherwise, between Discovery and Intel; (iv) the entry by the Parties into, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements; or (v) patent infringement (or inducement of patent infringement) of the patents licensed by Intel under any of the agreements referenced in subsections (i) through (iv) above in respect of actions taken by or products manufactured and/or sold by FoundryCo while FoundryCo is a "Subsidiary" of Discovery (subject to Section 3.7 of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement), as "Subsidiary" is defined in either the Old Intel Agreement or the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, as applicable; for the avoidance of doubt, in the case of any of the foregoing clauses (i) through (v), whether the conduct, events or conditions giving rise to such Claims or resulting in such Losses occurred or existed either prior to or after the Closing;
To the extent that Discovery's undertakings set forth in this Section 12.03 may be unenforceable, Discovery shall contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted to contribute under applicable Law to the payment and satisfaction of all Pearl Losses.
SECTION 12.04. . Discovery and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (each a ""), shall be indemnified and held harmless by FoundryCo for and against any and all Losses (any Loss by such Persons, a "") arising out of or resulting from or incurred by reason of or in connection with:
Indemnification of Discovery by FoundryCo
Discovery Indemnified Party
Discovery Loss
(a) the breach of any covenant or agreement by FoundryCo contained in the Transaction Documents;
(b) the Assumed Liabilities (other than Discovery Losses caused by a breach of a representation or warranty by Discovery or the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries or non-fulfillment of any covenant or agreement of Discovery or the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries contained in any Transaction Document); or
(c) the operation of FoundryCo, the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities after the Closing (but excluding any Liabilities resulting in Oyster/FoundryCo Losses subject to indemnification pursuant to Section 12.02).
 
The indemnification obligations of this Section 12.04 shall be in addition to FoundryCo's obligations to indemnify directors and officers, including directors appointed by Discovery, pursuant to the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement. To the extent that FoundryCo's undertakings set forth in this Section 12.04 may be unenforceable, FoundryCo shall contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted to contribute under applicable Law to the payment and satisfaction of all Discovery Losses.
SECTION 12.05. . Oyster and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (each an ""), shall be indemnified and held harmless by FoundryCo for and against any and all Losses (any Loss by such Persons, an "") arising out of or resulting from or incurred by reason of or in connection with:
Indemnification of Oyster by FoundryCo
Oyster Indemnified Party
Oyster Loss
(a) the breach of any covenant or agreement by FoundryCo contained in the Transaction Documents;
(b) Assumed Liabilities (other than Oyster Losses caused by a breach of a representation or warranty by Oyster or non-fulfillment of any covenant or agreement of Oyster contained in any Transaction Document); or
(c) the operation of FoundryCo, the FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities after the Closing.
The indemnification obligations of this Section 12.05 shall be in addition to FoundryCo's obligations to indemnify directors, including directors appointed by Oyster, pursuant to the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement. To the extent that FoundryCo's undertakings set forth in this Section 12.05 may be unenforceable, FoundryCo shall contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted to contribute under applicable Law to the payment and satisfaction of all Oyster Losses.
SECTION 12.06. . (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or the Shareholders' Agreement, FoundryCo shall not submit any notice of Claim to Discovery or directly pursue any Claim for indemnification against Discovery for Oyster/FoundryCo Losses suffered by FoundryCo, in any case, pursuant to Section 12.02. Any such notice of claim shall be given, and any such Claim against Discovery shall be made, prosecuted, and if applicable, settled by Oyster in the name of FoundryCo. FoundryCo shall cooperate with Oyster in the investigation and prosecution of any such Claim, and shall make available to Oyster all witnesses, pertinent records, materials and information in FoundryCo's possession or under FoundryCo's control relating thereto as is reasonably required by Oyster in connection with such Claim or any Action related to such Claim. In the event that Oyster shall pursue a Claim against Discovery on behalf of FoundryCo, such indemnification shall be made directly to FoundryCo, provided that Oyster may recover all Oyster/FoundryCo Losses consisting of expenses (including reasonable attorneys' and consultants' fees and expenses) actually incurred by Oyster in connection with the investigation and prosecution of any such Claim or Action related to such Claim.
Limits on Indemnification
(b) In the event that Oyster has a Claim for indemnification against Discovery pursuant to Section 12.02 that is based on Oyster/FoundryCo Losses suffered or incurred by FoundryCo, and Oyster suffers or incurs such Oyster/FoundryCo Losses only indirectly as a result of a diminution in the value of Oyster's debt or equity securities of FoundryCo, then Oyster may pursue a Claim for indemnification by Discovery pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.02 only on behalf of FoundryCo. Upon discharge and satisfaction by Discovery of the full amount of its indemnification obligations to FoundryCo for such Losses, Discovery's indemnification obligations for such Losses shall be deemed satisfied with respect to Oyster.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement:
 
 
 
The limitations of this Section 12.06(c) shall not apply with respect to indemnification for Taxes pursuant to Section 12.02(a).
(d) The Parties shall make appropriate adjustments for insurance proceeds actually received, net of all reasonable and documented costs and expenses of recovery, in calculating Losses under this Article XII. Any insurance proceeds actually recovered by an Indemnified Party to the extent relating to any Losses previously paid by an Indemnifying Party shall be paid over promptly to such Indemnifying Party.
(e) No Party (or any other Indemnified Party) shall seek or be entitled to receive any consequential damages, including but not limited to loss of revenue or income, cost of capital, or loss of business reputation or opportunity, relating to any misrepresentation or breach of any warranty or covenant set forth in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement; nor shall any Party or Indemnified Party seek or be entitled to receive punitive damages as to any matter under, relating to or arising out of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
SECTION 12.07. . (a) An Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnifying Party notice of any matter that an Indemnified Party has determined has given or could give rise to a right of indemnification under this Agreement, within one hundred eighty (180) days of such determination, stating the amount of the Loss, if known, and method of computation thereof, and containing a reference to the provisions of this Agreement in respect of which such right of indemnification is claimed or arises.
Notice of Loss; Third Party Claims
(b) If an Indemnified Party shall receive notice of any Action, audit, demand or assessment (each, a "") against it or which may give rise to a Claim for a Loss under this Article XII, within ninety (90) days of the receipt of such notice, the Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnifying Party notice of such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the failure to provide such notice shall not release the Indemnifying Party from any of its obligations under this Article XII except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is materially prejudiced by such failure and shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party from any other obligation or Liability that it may have to any Indemnified Party otherwise than under this Article XII. If the Indemnifying Party acknowledges in writing its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party hereunder against any Losses that may result from such Third Party Claim, then the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to assume and control the defense of such Third Party Claim at its expense and through counsel of its choice if it gives notice of its intention to do so to the Indemnified Party within thirty (30) days of the receipt of notice from the Indemnified Party of such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that if there exists or is reasonably likely to exist a conflict of interest that would make it inappropriate in the judgment of the Indemnified Party in its sole and absolute discretion for the same counsel to represent both the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party, then the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to retain its own counsel in each jurisdiction for which the Indemnified Party determines counsel is required, at the expense of the Indemnifying Party. In the event that the Indemnifying Party exercises the right to undertake any such defense against any such Third Party Claim as provided above, the Indemnified Party shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in such defense and make available to the Indemnifying Party, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, all witnesses, pertinent records, materials and information in the Indemnified Party's possession or under the Indemnified Party's control relating thereto as is
Third Party Claim
 
reasonably required by the Indemnifying Party. Similarly, in the event the Indemnified Party is, directly or indirectly, conducting the defense against any such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall cooperate with the Indemnified Party in such defense and make available to the Indemnified Party, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, all such witnesses, records, materials and information in the Indemnifying Party's possession or under the Indemnifying Party's control relating thereto as is reasonably required by the Indemnified Party. No such Third Party Claim may be settled by the Indemnifying Party without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party.
SECTION 12.08. . The Parties agree that all payments made by either Discovery or Oyster to or for the benefit of the other under this Article XII, under other indemnity provisions of the Transaction Documents unless otherwise stated in the other Transaction Documents, and for any misrepresentations or breaches of warranties or covenants under the Transaction Documents, shall be treated as adjustments to the purchase price for Tax purposes and that such treatment shall govern for purposes hereof except to the extent that the Laws of a particular jurisdiction provide otherwise, in which case such payments shall be made in an amount sufficient to indemnify the relevant Party on an after-Tax basis. The Parties further agree that all payments made by either Discovery or Oyster to or for the benefit of FoundryCo under this Article XII, under other indemnity provisions of the Transaction Documents unless otherwise stated in the other Transaction Documents, and for any misrepresentations or breaches of warranties or covenants under the Transaction Documents, shall be treated as a contribution to the capital of FoundryCo by the indemnifying Party, and the Loss of FoundryCo that gives rise to such indemnification obligation shall be specially allocated to the indemnifying Party pursuant to the penultimate sentence of Section 2.2 of Exhibit C to the Tax Matters Agreement. Neither such contribution nor such special allocation of the Loss shall increase or decrease a Party's percentage interest, allocations, or distributions in respect of its equity interest in FoundryCo.
Tax Treatment
SECTION 13.01. . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing:
Termination
(a) by either Oyster or Pearl if, between the date hereof and the Closing: (i) an event or condition occurs that has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) any representations and warranties of Discovery contained in this Agreement (A) that are not qualified by "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" shall not have been true and correct in all material respects when made and the result thereof is reasonably likely to cause a Material Adverse Effect or (B) that are qualified by "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" shall not have been true and correct when made and the result thereof is reasonably likely to cause a Material Adverse Effect, (iii) Discovery shall not have complied in all material respects with the covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement to be complied with by it and the result thereof is reasonably likely to cause a Material Adverse Effect, (iv) Discovery shall have failed to comply in any material respect with its covenants contained in Section 8.09, or (v) Discovery makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against Discovery seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking its liquidation, winding up or reorganization, or seeking any arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief or composition of its debts under any Law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization;
(b) by any of Discovery, Oyster or Pearl if the Closing shall not have occurred by March 7, 2009 (the ""); provided, however, that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 13.01(b) shall not be available to any Party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement shall have been the cause of, or shall have resulted in, the failure of the Closing to occur on or prior to the Termination Date, and provided further, that, if as of the Termination Date, Discovery has received and there is pending a Discovery Change of Control Proposal, the Termination Date shall be extended to the earlier of (i) sixty (60) days following the receipt by Discovery of such Discovery Change of Control Proposal or (ii) the occurrence of a Discovery Change of Control Triggering Event;
Termination Date
 
(c) by any of Discovery, Oyster or Pearl in the event that any Governmental Authority shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting or rendering illegal the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable;
(d) by Oyster or Pearl upon the occurrence of a Discovery Change of Control Triggering Event;
(e) by Oyster or Pearl if representatives of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and/or any other lead agency designated by the CFIUS for this transaction (at least one of whom serves at the rank of Deputy Assistant Secretary or higher), acting on behalf of the CFIUS, inform the Parties either that the CFIUS will refer the transaction to the President of the United States for decision, or that the CFIUS Clearance would be conditioned upon Mitigation Agreements that would be inconsistent with Section 8.07(d); or
(f) by the mutual written consent of Discovery, Oyster and Pearl.
SECTION 13.02. . In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in Section 13.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability on the part of either Party except (a) as set forth in Section 13.03, and (b) that nothing herein shall relieve any Party from liability for any breach of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
SECTION 13.03. . (a) Except as set forth in this Section 13.03, all expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be paid by the Party incurring such expenses, whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated; provided, however, that immediately after the Closing, Discovery agrees to reimburse Pearl for up to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Pearl in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Expenses
(b) Discovery agrees that if Oyster or Pearl shall terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 13.01(d), then Discovery shall pay to Pearl, promptly (but in any event no later than one business day after the first of such events shall have occurred) a fee of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) (the ""), which amount shall be payable in immediately available funds. In the event that any party has terminated this Agreement pursuant to Section 13.01(b) and on the Termination Date (including any extension thereof pursuant to Section 13.01(b)), the conditions contained in Section 11.02(f) and Section 11.03(g) were not satisfied, then for a period of twelve (12) months following such termination, if Discovery shall enter into a definitive written agreement for a Discovery Change of Control Transaction, or if a Discovery Change of Control Transaction shall have occurred, Discovery shall promptly pay to Pearl, in immediately available funds, the Pearl Termination. In the event that this Agreement shall be terminated for any reason following a material breach by Discovery of the covenants set forth in Section 8.09, then upon such termination Discovery shall promptly pay, in immediately available funds, the Pearl Termination Fee to Pearl, plus an amount payable to each of Oyster and Pearl, respectively, equal to the amount of Oyster's and Pearl's respective Purchaser Expenses.
Pearl Termination Fee
(c) Discovery acknowledges that the agreements contained in this Section 13.03 are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In the event that Discovery shall fail to pay the Pearl Termination Fee, or any Purchaser Expenses when due, the definition of the term "Purchaser Expenses" shall be deemed to include the costs and expenses actually incurred or accrued by Oyster and Pearl (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) in connection with the collection under and enforcement of this Section 13.03. Payment of the Pearl Termination Fee or any Purchaser Expenses as described in this Section 13.03 shall not be in lieu of any damages incurred in the event of any breach of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 14.01. . All notices, requests, Claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by an internationally recognized overnight courier service, by facsimile or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective Parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a Party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 14.01):
Notices
 
 
SECTION 14.02. . No Party shall make, or cause to be made, any press release or public announcement in respect of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise communicate with any news media without the prior consent of the other Parties unless otherwise required by Law or applicable stock exchange regulation, and the Parties shall cooperate as to the timing and contents of any such press release, public announcement or communication.
Public Announcements
SECTION 14.03. . If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to either Party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability
SECTION 14.04. . This Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements constitute the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
Entire Agreement
SECTION 14.05. . This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of each Party (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such Party) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void. Neither the transfer of ownership interests in Pearl to an Affiliate of Mubadala, nor the transfer of ownership interests in Oyster to any entity owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi shall be deemed to be an assignment, by operation of law or otherwise, of this Agreement or of any of the Ancillary Agreements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the Closing, Oyster may transfer by novation all of its rights, liabilities, duties and obligations relative to, and in connection with this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, to Advanced Technology Investment Company PJSC, a public joint stock company to be organized under the laws of the United Arab Emirates and wholly owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi ("Oyster Parent"), which novation shall become effective upon the written undertaking, in form reasonably satisfactory to Discovery, by Oyster Parent to perform all of the liabilities and obligations of Oyster under this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which Oyster is a party. Upon the effectiveness of such novation, without any other action by the Parties, Oyster Parent shall be deemed to be Oyster for all purposes under this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement to which Oyster is a party.
Assignment
SECTION 14.06. . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each Party or (b) by a waiver in accordance with Section 14.07.
Amendment
SECTION 14.07. . Any Party to this Agreement may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of any other Party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of other Parties contained herein or in any document delivered by other Parties pursuant hereto, or (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of other Parties or conditions to such Party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the Party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of any Party to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
Waiver
SECTION 14.08. . Except for the provisions of Article XII relating to Indemnified Parties, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any
Third Party Beneficiaries
 
other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of any Party, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
SECTION 14.09. .
Governing Law; Arbitration
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to principles of the conflict of laws.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one Party to the other(s), to a senior executive from each Party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the LCIA Rules then in effect, as amended by this Section 14.09, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 14.09. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three (3). Each Party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators nominated by the Parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal. If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a Party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and, subject to this Section 14.09(c) and to Section 14.09(d), may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the Parties. In the event any Party subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a Party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the Parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the Parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the Parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the Parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 14.09; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall
Interim Relief Proceeding
 
be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements, as the case may be (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 14.09).
(d) Each of Oyster and Pearl hereby irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law whatever defense it may have of sovereign immunity against suit or enforcement, for itself and its property (presently owned or subsequently acquired, and whether related to this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements, as the case may be, or not), in: (i) any arbitration proceedings commenced and held in London, England in accordance with this Section 14.09(c); (ii) any Interim Relief Proceeding commenced and held in a court of competent jurisdiction in London, England, in accordance with Section 14.09(c); (iii) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England to confirm an award rendered by the arbitrators in accordance with this Section 14.09; and (iv) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce an award, and each of Oyster and Pearl agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such action or proceeding.
(e) The Parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 14.01. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any Party's behalf, such Party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a Party requiring another Party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other Party fails to do so, the Party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other Party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
SECTION 14.10. . Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to currency, monetary values and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars and all payments hereunder shall be made in United States dollars.
Currency
SECTION 14.11. . Each Party acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and the Transaction Documents and that each of the Parties has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting party has no application and is expressly waived.
No Presumption Against Drafting Party
SECTION 14.12.. This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different Parties in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
. For purposes of this Agreement:
Certain Defined Terms
"" means any claim, action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any Governmental Authority.
Action
"" means any notices or approvals required by Law in any jurisdiction outside the United States that relates to antitrust or competition.
Additional Competition Approvals
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person provided that:
Affiliate
(a) with respect to Oyster, Affiliate shall mean any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Oyster and a public joint stock company or other company (if any) that becomes the direct corporate parent of Oyster (such direct parent company, ""), and with respect to Pearl, Affiliate shall mean any direct or indirect subsidiary of Mubadala. Affiliate shall not mean any direct or indirect parent or sister entity of either Oyster Parent Holding Company or Mubadala, respectively, unless such parent or sister entity is acting as a member of a "group" (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with Mubadala or with Oyster Parent Holding Company, respectively, for the purposes of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of Discovery or FoundryCo;
Oyster Parent Holding Company
(b) for the purposes of Section 12.02, Discovery, the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries, and their respective officers, directors and stockholders shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of FoundryCo or Oyster;
(c) for the purposes of Section 12.03, Discovery, the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries, and their respective officers, directors and stockholders shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of Pearl;
(d) for the purposes of Section 12.04, FoundryCo, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, and their respective officers and directors shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of Discovery; and
(e) for the purposes of Section 12.05, Discovery and its Subsidiaries, FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries, the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities, and any of their respective officers, directors, controlling shareholders and any other control Persons shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of Oyster, (provided that the directors of FoundryCo designated or appointed by Oyster shall be deemed to be Affiliates of Oyster).
"" or "" means this Master Transaction Agreement between the Parties (including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto and the Disclosure Schedule) and all amendments hereto made in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Agreement
this Agreement
"" means: (i) any transaction with any Third Person that relates to the sale, lease, or other disposition of, or any joint venture or alliance with any Third Person related to, any material portion of the FoundryCo Assets; (ii) any other extraordinary material business transaction that could reasonably materially adversely impact the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements, the performance by Discovery and its Subsidiaries of their obligations hereunder and thereunder or the operation or ownership of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries contemplated by this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the FoundryCo Business Plan; or (iii) any agreement related to the sale of more than fifteen percent (15%) of the capital stock of Discovery. For the avoidance of doubt, an Alternative Transaction does not include a sale of all or any portion of the ATMP Business or the Consumer Electronics Group Segment.
Alternative Transaction
 
"" means Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH & Co. KG.
AMTC
"" means those guarantees given by Discovery with respect to the amounts due by AMTC under the AMTC Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in 4.07(b) of the Disclosure Schedule) and the AMTC/BAC Rental Agreement (as such term is defined in 4.07(e) of the Disclosure Schedule).
AMTC/BAC Guarantees
"" means the Bridge Funding Agreement, the FoundryCo Convertible Notes, the Warrants, the Deed of Contribution, the Assumption Agreement, the Funding Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Patent License Agreement, the Patent Transfer and License Agreement, the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement, the Shareholders' Agreement, the Wafer Supply Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements
"" means (i) the Patents set forth on Section 4.14(a) of the Disclosure Schedule, and (ii) any other Patents mutually agreed to by the Parties prior to Closing.
Assigned Patents
"" means the Technology owned by Discovery immediately prior to the Closing Date for use exclusively for the manufacture, sorting and/or intermediate (WIP) testing of semiconductor products.
Assigned Technology
"" means only the Liabilities set forth on Exhibit E hereto.
Assumed Liabilities
"" means the Assumption Agreement to be executed by Discovery and FoundryCo at the Closing, substantially in the form of Exhibit H pursuant to which FoundryCo will assume the Assumed Liabilities.
Assumption Agreement
"" means the business of Discovery that relates to the assembly, testing, marking and packaging of semiconductor products.
ATMP Business
"" means any authorization, consent, approval, permit, license or decree issued by, or validation of, or filing, or a qualification or registration or filing with, or notice to or waiver from, or agreement with, any Governmental Authority.
Authorization
"" means that certain Bridge Funding Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2008, by and between Discovery and Oyster.
Bridge Funding Agreement
"" means any day that is not a Friday, a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in The City of New York or in Abu Dhabi.
Business Day
"" means: (a) the audited balance sheet of the FoundryCo Group as of June 28, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 31, 2006 and the related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the FoundryCo Group for the six months ended June 28, 2008 and the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 31, 2006, together with all related notes thereto; and (b) the unaudited balance sheet of the FoundryCo Group as of September 27, 2008 and the related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the FoundryCo Group for the three-month period then ended.
Carve Out Financial Statements
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the LCIA Rules.
Chairman
"" means any and all administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, petitions, appeals, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigations, proceedings, consent orders or consent agreements, including any of the foregoing made by a Party to, against or relating to another Party with respect to this Agreement.
Claims
"" means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States.
CFIUS
 
"" means that either (A) the CFIUS shall have provided notice to the effect that a review or investigation of the transactions contemplated hereby has been concluded, and that a determination has been made that there are no unresolved U.S. national security concerns; or (B) the President of the United States shall not have taken action to block or prevent the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby under Exon-Florio and the applicable time period for the President to take such action shall have expired.
CFIUS Clearance
"" means the Class A convertible promissory notes of FoundryCo in the form attached as Exhibit I-1 hereto.
Class A Convertible Notes
"" means the Class A (voting) ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class A preferred shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Preferred Shares
"" means the Class B convertible promissory notes of FoundryCo in the form attached as Exhibit I-2 hereto.
Class B Convertible Notes
"" means the Class B (non-voting) ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class B preferred shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Preferred Shares
"" means the statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets of the FoundryCo Group as of the month-end nearest to the Closing Date to be prepared pursuant to Section 2.08(a).
Closing Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets
"" means that certain Cooperation Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2005, by and among Infineon Technologies AG, Discovery and Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur Frderung der angewandten Forschung e.V., on behalf of its CNT Fraunhofer institute, as amended.
CNT Agreement
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means any permit, license, consents, exemption, franchise, authorization or approval from any Person other than a Governmental Authority.
Consent
"" means Discovery's consumer electronics group as described in the Discovery SEC Documents.
Consumer Electronics Group Segment
"" (including the terms "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly or as trustee, personal representative or executor, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee, personal representative or executor, by contract, credit arrangement or otherwise.
control
controlled by
under common control with
"" means all sales, use, value added, transfer, stamp, stock transfer, real property transfer or gains and similar Taxes.
Conveyance Taxes
"" means mask works and copyrights in works of authorship of any type, including Software, registrations and applications for registration thereof throughout the world, and all similar rights therein provided by international treaties and conventions.
Copyrights
 
"" means (i) that certain Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2004, as amended as of September 28, 2006, between Discovery and Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH, and (ii) that certain Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2004, as amended through January 18, 2008, between Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH and Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG.
Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreements
"" means the Deed of Contribution and Assignment to be executed by Discovery at the Closing, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit G.
Deed of Contribution
"" means a series of parameters and specifications used as guidelines or requirements for the design of semiconductor devices for manufacture using specified manufacturing processes.
Design Rules
"" means one hundred five million dollars ($105,000,000).
Designated Amount
"" means a series of parameters and specifications used as guidelines or requirements for the design of semiconductor devices for manufacture using specified manufacturing processes.
Design Rules
"" means the Disclosure Schedule attached hereto as Schedule B, dated as of the date hereof, delivered by Discovery to Oyster and Pearl upon the execution of this Agreement.
Disclosure Schedule
"" means the business of Discovery, as described in the SEC Documents.
Discovery Business
"" means any proposal or offer made by any Third Person related to a Discovery Change of Control Transaction.
Discovery Change of Control Proposal
"" means a transaction or series of transactions with or among any Third Person, on one hand, and Discovery, its stockholders, or any of its Subsidiaries on the other hand, with respect to (a) a merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation, business combination, recapitalization, dissolution, liquidation or similar transaction involving Discovery in which the shareholders of Discovery immediately prior to such transaction shall own less than fifty percent (50%) of the voting securities of the surviving corporation outstanding immediately after such transaction, (b) any purchase of an equity interest (including by means of a tender or exchange offer) resulting in any Third Person beneficially owning greater than a fifty percent (50%) voting or economic interest in Discovery, or (c) any purchase of assets, securities or ownership interests resulting in any Third Person owning greater than fifty percent (50%) of the consolidated assets of Discovery and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (including stock of Discovery's Subsidiaries). Following the Closing Date, a Discovery Change of Control Transaction shall be also deemed to have occurred if individuals who, as of the Closing Date constitute the board of directors of Discovery (the ""), cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such board of directors; provided , however, that any individual becoming a member of the board of directors of Discovery subsequent to the Closing Date, whose election, or nomination for election by Discovery's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board
Discovery Change of Control Transaction
Incumbent Board
"" shall mean and shall be deemed to have occurred if the board of directors of Discovery shall have determined by a majority vote to enter into a binding written agreement providing for the consummation of a transaction that constitutes a Discovery Change of Control Transaction or a Discovery Change of Control Transaction approved by a majority vote of Discovery's board of directors has occurred; or there has occurred a Discovery Change of Control Transaction, whether or not such Discovery Change of Control Transaction is approved by the board of directors of Discovery.
Discovery Change of Control Triggering Event
 
"" means shares of the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Discovery.
Discovery Common Stock
"" means Ring oscillator testing technology as modified or developed by Discovery to test the performance of Discovery products in relation to semiconductor product improvements designed by or for Discovery, and which is comprised of various building blocks used in Discovery's product design, which building blocks are designed to represent proprietary critical paths on an Discovery device that determine the frequency of operation.
Discovery Excluded Technology
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Discovery delivered to FoundryCo at the Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Sections 11.02 and 11.03.
Discovery FoundryCo Closing Certificate
"" means any circumstance, change in or effect on the Discovery Business, Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate with all other circumstances, changes in or effects on the Discovery Business, Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries: (a) is or is reasonably likely to be materially adverse to the condition, financial or otherwise, or to the results of operations, earnings, business affairs, or properties of Discovery and its Subsidiaries, taken as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business; or (b) could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements or the performance by Discovery of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
Discovery Material Adverse Effect
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Discovery delivered to Oyster at the Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Sections 11.02 and 11.03.
Discovery Oyster Closing Certificate
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Discovery delivered to Pearl at the Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Sections 11.02 and 11.03.
Discovery Pearl Closing Certificate
"" means fifty-eight million (58,000,000) newly issued shares of Discovery Common Stock to be delivered to Pearl at the Closing.
Discovery Shares
"" means the Depository Trust Company.
DTC
"" means a participant in the DTC's Direct Registration Service.
DTC Participant
"" means any security interest, pledge, hypothecation, mortgage, lien (including environmental and tax liens), violation, charge, lease, license, encumbrance, servient easement, adverse claim, reversion, reverter, preferential arrangement, restrictive covenant, condition or restriction of any kind, including any restriction on the use, voting, transfer, receipt of income or other exercise of any attributes of ownership, but not including non-exclusive licenses of Intellectual Property entered into in the ordinary course of business.
Encumbrance
"" means surface waters, groundwaters, soil, subsurface strata and ambient air.
Environment
"" means any Claims relating in any way to any Environmental Law or any Environmental Permit, including (a) any and all Claims by Governmental Authorities for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law and (b) any and all Claims by any Person seeking damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief resulting from Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety, natural resources or the Environment.
Environmental Claims
"" means any Law of any relevant jurisdiction, now or hereafter in effect and as amended, and any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any Governmental Order, relating to the Environment, health, safety, natural resources or Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
 
"" means all permits, approvals, identification numbers, licenses and other authorizations required under or issued pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law.
Environmental Permits
"" means any entity that is a member of a controlled group for purposes of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means assets of Discovery and its Subsidiaries that are not FoundryCo Assets or as otherwise specified in Exhibit D.
Excluded Assets
"" means all Liabilities of Discovery and its Subsidiaries that are not Assumed Liabilities including, but not limited to:
Excluded Liabilities
(a) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries incurred by Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the conduct of their business, other than those Liabilities incurred by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries arising out of or resulting from their operations after the Closing Date;
(b) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries arising out of matters occurring, or obligations incurred, after the Closing;
(c) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries arising under this Agreement and the Transaction Documents;
(d) any intercompany payables and Liabilities of Discovery or any of the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries to any of their respective Affiliates other than obligations of FoundryCo and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries under this Agreement and the Transaction Documents;
(e) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent related to Excluded Assets;
(f) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries arising out of, resulting from or relating to Claims, including Environmental Claims, whether founded upon negligence, strict liability in tort, statute, breach of any warranty, express or implied, or other legal theory, seeking compensation or recovery for or relating to injury to person, damage to property, whether tangible or intangible, or refund, repair or replacement of any product, together with any consequential, special, exemplary or punitive damages related to any of the foregoing, pending against Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries at Closing, or Claims made or instituted after Closing to the extent that they arise out of the conduct or operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries before Closing;
(g) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries relating to any amounts payable by FoundryCo following the Closing that relate to any service by any Transferred Employee with Discovery through the Closing, including any salary or wages, any accrued vacation, sick or personal days, retirement, termination or severance payments or benefits or any bonuses, to the extent that such amounts are not reflected as Liabilities on the Reference Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets, except for the payments provided for in Section 10.03;
(h) any Liabilities of Discovery or any of its Subsidiaries payable after the Closing that consist of retention bonuses or any other amounts payable to any employee above such employee's base salary and that were offered or agreed to by Discovery prior to Closing to induce such employee to become a Transferred Employee, except for the payments provided for in Section 10.03; and
(i) any other Liabilities otherwise designated as an Excluded Liability herein or on any schedule to this Agreement.
 
"" means Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, 50 U.S.C. App. Section 2170.
Exon-Florio
"" means:
FoundryCo Assets
(a) the Transferred Interests;
(b) all assets to be transferred to FoundryCo that are not owned or controlled by the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries that are set forth on Exhibit C hereto, and all assets owned or controlled by the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries that are not Excluded Assets;
(c) all the Owned Real Property and all rights of Discovery and its Subsidiaries in respect of the Leased Real Property;
(d) all furniture, fixtures, equipment, machinery and other tangible personal property used or held for use by Discovery and its Subsidiaries necessary for FoundryCo to carry on its business as currently conducted (other than those to be used in connection with Discovery's provision of services under the Transition Services Agreement), in each case as described in Exhibit C hereto, and not otherwise included in clause (b) above;
(e) all vehicles owned by Discovery and its Subsidiaries at Closing and necessary for FoundryCo to carry on its business as currently conducted, in each case, as described in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the FoundryCo Business Plan;
(f) all Transferred Inventories;
(g) copies of all books of account, general, financial, Tax and personnel records, invoices, shipping records, supplier lists, correspondence and other documents, records and files and any rights thereto owned, associated with or employed by Discovery and its Subsidiaries at the Closing and related to the proposed operations of FoundryCo or necessary for FoundryCo to carry on its business as currently conducted, in each case as described in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the FoundryCo Business Plan;
(h) all of Discovery's and its Subsidiaries' right, title and interest in, to and under the Transferred IP Agreements, copies and tangible embodiments thereof in whatever form or medium, and all rights to sue and recover damages for past, present and future infringement, dilution, misappropriation, violation, unlawful imitation or breach thereof;
(i) the Owned Intellectual Property;
(j) all claims, causes of action, choses in action, rights of recovery and rights of setoff of any kind (including rights to insurance proceeds and rights under and pursuant to all warranties, representations and guarantees made by suppliers of products, materials or equipment, or components thereof) pertaining to, arising out of and inuring to the benefit of Discovery and its Subsidiaries, related to the proposed operations of FoundryCo, or necessary for FoundryCo to carry on its business as currently conducted, in each case as described in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the FoundryCo Business Plan, other than Excluded Assets;
(k) all rights of Discovery and its Subsidiaries under any Material FoundryCo Contract (other than any Transferred IP Agreement) exclusively or primarily related to FoundryCo's business; and
(l) all Authorizations held or used by Discovery or its Subsidiaries necessary for FoundryCo to carry on its business as currently conducted, in each case as described in this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the FoundryCo Business Plan, to the extent transferable.
"" means the Five Year Capital Plan as defined in the Funding Agreement.
FoundryCo Business Plan
 
"" means Exhibit L hereto, showing the consolidated capitalization of FoundryCo at Closing.
FoundryCo Capitalization Table
"" means the Class A Convertible Notes and the Class B Convertible Notes.
FoundryCo Convertible Notes
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of FoundryCo delivered to Discovery at the Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Section 11.01.
FoundryCo Discovery Closing Certificate
"" means, collectively, FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries (including the Transferred Discovery Subsidiaries) from and after the Closing Date.
FoundryCo Group
"" means the undertaking, in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto, delivered at Closing by FoundryCo to the Parties pursuant to which FoundryCo will, upon Closing and without any further action by the Parties, become a Party to this Agreement, with the rights and obligations set forth herein.
FoundryCo Joinder
"" means any circumstance, change in or effect on the Discovery Business, Discovery, any of its Subsidiaries, or on FoundryCo, the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate with all other circumstances, changes in or effects on the Discovery Business, Discovery, any of its Subsidiaries, or on FoundryCo, the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries: (a) is or is reasonably likely to be materially adverse to the condition, financial or otherwise, or to the results of operations, earnings, business affairs, or properties of the FoundryCo Group; or (b) could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements or the performance by any member of the FoundryCo Group of its obligations hereunder or thereunder.
FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit S hereto, among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo relating to future capital contributions to FoundryCo.
Funding Agreement
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles and practices in effect from time to time applied consistently throughout the periods involved.
GAAP
"" means the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries other than Discovery Fab Technologies U.S., Inc.
German Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries
"" means any (a) federal, national, supranational, foreign (i.e., non-U.S.), state, provincial, local, or similar government or political subdivision thereof, (b) any, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission, including any corporation chartered, owned or funded by any government or political subdivision thereof for the purposes of funding or subsidizing economic development, or (c) any court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body.
Governmental Authority
"" means any order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, stipulation, determination or award entered by or with any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Order
"" means, with respect to a Stock Option, the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was, by its terms, to be effective.
Grant Date
"" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, toxic mold, transformers or other equipment that contain polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas, (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances defined as or included in the definition of "hazardous substances," "hazardous wastes," "hazardous materials," "extremely hazardous wastes," "restricted hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "toxic pollutants," "contaminants" or "pollutants," or words of similar import, under any applicable Environmental Law, and (c) any other chemical, material or substance that is regulated by any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
HSR Act
"" means the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act.
HSR Approval
"" means the First Amended and Restated Participation Agreement, dated August 15, 2008, by and between Discovery and IBM.
IBM Development and License Agreement
"" means (a) shrink-wrap and click-through licenses (including similar agreements) of Discovery's Technology and Intellectual Property by Discovery or its Subsidiaries to third parties, written or in another form, issued in the ordinary course of business and immaterial in value as well as to the conduct of the business of Discovery or FoundryCo or the operation of the FoundryCo Assets, (b) licenses (including grants of use, covenants not to assert or similar agreements) of Discovery's Technology and Intellectual Property by Discovery or its Subsidiaries to third parties, written or in another form, issued in the ordinary course of business and immaterial in value as well as to the conduct of the business of FoundryCo, and (c) licenses (including grants of use, covenants not to assert or similar agreements) of Technology and Intellectual Property by third parties to Discovery or its Subsidiaries, written or in another form, issued in the ordinary course of business and immaterial in value as well as to the conduct of the business of Discovery or FoundryCo or the operation of the FoundryCo Assets.
Immaterial IP Agreements
"" means, with respect to any Person: (a) all indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent, for borrowed money; (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services; (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments; (d) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of Discovery or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases; (f) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person under acceptance, letter of credit or similar facilities; (g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value any capital stock of such Person or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such capital stock, valued, in the case of redeemable preferred stock, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends; (h) all Indebtedness of others referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (I) to pay or purchase such Indebtedness or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Indebtedness, (II) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Indebtedness or to assure the holder of such Indebtedness against loss, (III) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (IV) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss; and (i) all Indebtedness referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Encumbrance on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness.
Indebtedness
"" means an Oyster/FoundryCo Indemnified Party, a Pearl Indemnified Party, a Discovery Indemnified Party or an Oyster Indemnified Party, as the case may be.
Indemnified Party
"" means Discovery pursuant to Sections 12.02 and 12.03 or FoundryCo pursuant to Sections 12.04 and 12.05.
Indemnifying Party
"" means the Combined Assets of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries less the Combined Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, in each case as further described in Schedule 2.08.
Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means that certain Patent Cross License Agreement between Discovery and Intel dated as of January 1, 2001, as amended.
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
"" means Patents licensed to Discovery under the Old Intel Agreement and the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement.
Intel Patents
"" means (a) Patents, (b) Trademarks, (c) Copyrights, (d) Trade Secrets and (e) Software.
Intellectual Property
"" means all inventory, raw materials and work-in-process held by Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries. For the avoidance of doubt, Inventories excludes finished goods.
Inventories
"" means a Delaware limited liability company, jointly owned by Discovery and FoundryCo, to which Discovery shall have transferred a portion of its Patent portfolio prior to Closing.
IP HoldCo
"" means the Internal Revenue Service of the United States.
IRS
"" means a statement of the Combined Assets of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries less Combined Liabilities of the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries as of June 28, 2008.
June 28, 2008 Statement of Net Tangible Assets
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local or similar statute, law, ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement or rule of law (including common law).
Law
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the LCIA Rules
LCIA Court
"" means the Rules of the London Court of International Arbitration.
LCIA Rules
"" means the real property listed on Section 4.15(d) of the Disclosure Schedule, together with, to the extent leased by Discovery and its Subsidiaries (in connection with the operation of the other FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities), all buildings and other structures, facilities or improvements currently or hereafter located thereon, all fixtures, systems, equipment and items of personal property of Discovery and its Subsidiaries (used in connection with the operation of the other FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities) attached or appurtenant thereto and all easements, licenses, rights and appurtenances relating to the foregoing.
Leased Real Property
"" means any and all debts, liabilities and obligations, whether accrued or fixed, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured or determined or determinable, including those arising under any Law (including any Environmental Law), Action or Governmental Order and those arising under any contract, agreement, arrangement, commitment or undertaking.
Liabilities
"" means Intellectual Property licensed to Discovery or its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Transferred IP Agreements and exclusively used in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries.
Licensed Intellectual Property
"" means any and all Liabilities, losses, diminution in value, damages, claims, costs and expenses, interest, awards judgments and penalties (including reasonable attorneys' and consultants' fees and expenses) actually suffered or incurred by any Oyster/FoundryCo Indemnified Party, Pearl Indemnified Party or Discovery Indemnified Party (including in any Action brought or otherwise initiated by any of them).
Losses
 
"" means that real property located in the towns of Malta and Stillwater, New York, commonly known as the Luther Forest Technology Campus, that is the subject of that certain Option Agreement dated October 12, 2007, between Discovery and the Luther Forest Technology Campus Economic Development Corporation.
Luther Forest Site
"" means the Malta Rocket Fuel Area, EPA ID#: NYD980535124, designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as a "Superfund" site.
Malta Rocket Fuel Area
"" shall mean either a Discovery Material Adverse Effect or a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect; provided, however, that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the failure to provide and maintain any of the Minimum Required Authorizations and Consents as of the Closing shall be deemed to constitute a Material Adverse Effect for the purposes of Article XI.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means any agreement required under the Exchange Act to be filed as an exhibit to the Discovery SEC Documents, including, with respect to each agreement, any and all amendments, modifications, supplements, renewals or restatements thereof.
Material Discovery Contract
"" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of FoundryCo, set forth in Exhibit B and filed with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
"" means those Required Authorizations and Required Consents as specifically identified and described in Schedule A.
Minimum Required Authorizations and Consents
"" means formal contracts between any Party and any member agency of CFIUS, as well as any Party's or Parties' expression of commitments by letter to any member agency of CFIUS, in either case required by such member agency as a condition for obtaining the CFIUS Clearance.
Mitigation Agreements
"" means applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 or the Laws administered or promulgated by, or Actions of, the United States Office of Foreign Asset Controls, or similar Laws of any jurisdiction.
Money Laundering Laws
"" means Mubadala Development Corporation PJSC, a public joint stock company organized under the laws of the United Arab Emirates.
Mubadala
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit W hereto, between Discovery and FoundryCo.
Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement
"" means the approval by the stockholders of Discovery of the issuance and sale by Discovery to Pearl of the Discovery Shares and the Warrants on the terms provided herein as required by Rules 312.03 and 312.04 of the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE Required Approval
"" means that certain Agreement between Intel Corporation and Discovery dated October 1, 1976, as amended or supplemented since such date.
Old Intel Agreement
"" means the Class A Ordinary Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares
"" means the Transferred Patents, Transferred Software, Assigned Technology and Shared Technology.
Owned Intellectual Property
"" means the real property in which Discovery and its Subsidiaries have fee title (or equivalent) interest that is listed on Section 4.15(c) of the Disclosure Schedule, together with all buildings and other structures, facilities or improvements currently or hereafter located thereon, all fixtures, systems, equipment and items of personal property of Discovery (used in connection with the operation of the other FoundryCo Assets, the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries, and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities) attached or appurtenant thereto and all easements, licenses, rights and appurtenances relating to the foregoing.
Owned Real Property
 
"" means the cash payment in the amount of seven hundred million dollars ($700,000,000) payable at the Closing by Oyster to Discovery in consideration of the transfer by Discovery of seven hundred thousand (700,000) Class B Preferred Shares to Oyster.
Oyster/Discovery Cash Consideration
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Oyster delivered to Discovery at the Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Section 11.01.
Oyster Discovery Closing Certificate
"" means a cash payment in the amount of one billion four hundred million dollars ($1,400,000,000) payable at the Closing by Oyster to FoundryCo in consideration of the issuance of one (1) Class A Ordinary Share, three hundred thirty-six thousand seventy-one (336,071) Class A Preferred Shares, six hundred forty-four thousand two hundred eighty-four (644,284) Class B Preferred Shares, eighty-three million nine hundred twenty-nine thousand dollars ($83,929,000) aggregate principal amount of Class A Convertible Notes and three hundred thirty-five million seven hundred sixteen thousand dollars ($335,716,000) aggregate principal amount of Class B Convertible Notes to Oyster at Closing.
Oyster/FoundryCo Cash Consideration
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Oyster delivered to FoundryCo at Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Section 11.01.
Oyster FoundryCo Closing Certificate
"" means instruments of assignment delivered at Closing assigning all of Discovery's right, title and interest (including the right to sue and collect for past, present and future infringement) in the Assigned Patents to FoundryCo, in forms suitable for filing with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or similar non-U.S. agencies.
Patent Assignments
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit U hereto, entered into as of the Closing between Discovery and FoundryCo.
Patent License Agreement
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit V hereto, to be entered into at Closing among Discovery, FoundryCo and IP Holdco.
Patent Transfer & License Agreement
"" means United States and foreign patents, patent applications and statutory invention registrations, including reissues, divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, extensions and reexaminations thereof, and all rights therein provided by international treaties and conventions.
Patents
"" means the cash payment in the amount of three hundred thirteen million seven hundred forty-one thousand three hundred thirty-three dollars ($313,741,333) payable at Closing by Pearl to Discovery in exchange for the Discovery Shares and the Warrants.
Pearl/Discovery Cash Consideration
"" means the certificate of a duly authorized officer of Pearl delivered to Discovery at Closing certifying as to the matters set forth in Section 11.01.
Pearl Discovery Closing Certificate
"" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced and as to which Discovery is not otherwise subject to civil or criminal liability due to its existence: (a) liens for Taxes not yet due and payable, for which adequate reserves have been maintained in accordance with GAAP; (b) Encumbrances imposed by Law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's liens and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations that (i) are not overdue for a period of more than thirty 30 days and (ii) are not in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) in the case of a single property or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) in the aggregate at any time; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; (d) minor survey exceptions, reciprocal easement agreements and other customary encumbrances on title to real property that (i) were not incurred in connection with any Indebtedness, (ii) do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable and (iii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially and adversely affect the value of or the use of such property for its current and anticipated purposes; or (e) Encumbrances in existence on the date of this Agreement that are listed in Section A-1 of the Disclosure Schedule.
Permitted Encumbrances
 
"" means any Affiliates of Pearl, and any entity controlled by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
Permitted Transferees
"" means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" means: (a) the audited balance sheets of Discovery Saxony Holding GmbH, Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH, Discovery Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the related statements of income, together with all related notes and schedules thereto audited in accordance with German generally accepted accounting standards; and (b) the unaudited balance sheets of Discovery Saxony Holding GmbH, Discovery Fab 36 Holding GmbH, Discovery Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and Discovery Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG as of June 30, 2008, and the related statements of income for the six month period then ended, prepared in accordance with German generally accepted accounting standards.
Pre-Signing Financial Statements
"" means: (A) any Software that contains, or is derived in any manner in whole or in part from, any Software that is distributed as free Software, open source Software (e.g. Linux) or under similar licensing or distribution models; (B) any Software that may require as a condition of use, modification or distribution that such Software or other Software incorporated into, derived from or distributed with such Software: (i) be disclosed or distributed in source code form; (ii) be licensed for the purpose of making derivative works; or (iii) be redistributable at no charge; and (C) Software licensed or distributed under any of the following licenses or distribution models, or licenses or distribution models similar to any of the following: (t) GNU's General Public License (GPL) or Lesser/Library GPL (LGPL); (u) the Artistic License (e.g., PERL); (v) the Mozilla Public License; (w) the Netscape Public License; (x) the Sun Community Source License (SCSL); (y) the Sun Industry Source License (SISL); and (z) the Apache Software License.
Public Software
"" means (i) all out of pocket expenses and fees of counsel, accountants, experts and consultants to Oyster and Pearl and their respective stockholders and Affiliates actually incurred or accrued by any of them or on their behalf in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, including, without limitation, the financing thereof and including fees and expenses payable to all banks, investment banking firms, other financial institutions, and other persons and their respective agents and counsel, for arranging, committing to provide or providing any financing for, or structuring the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, and (ii) all fees and expenses actually incurred or accrued by banks, investment banking firms, other financial institutions and other persons, and for which Oyster and Pearl and their respective stockholders and Affiliates are liable in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and performance of this Agreement, the structuring and financing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, and any financing commitments or agreements relating thereto.
Purchaser Expenses
"" shall be an amount equal to two billion three hundred eighty million three hundred fifty-five thousand dollars ($2,380,355,000), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 2.08.
Purchase Price
"" means the Leased Real Property and the Owned Real Property.
Real Property
"" means any and all accounts receivable, notes and other amounts receivable from third parties, including customers and employees, arising from the conduct of the Discovery Business before the Closing and arising in the ordinary course, together with any unpaid financing charges accrued thereon.
Receivables
"" means the projected statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets, as of December 27, 2008, a copy of which is set forth on Schedule 2.08.
Reference Statement of Initial Valuation Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement in the form of Exhibit F, to be entered into at Closing between Pearl and Discovery.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means disposing, discharging, injecting, spilling, leaking, leaching, dumping, emitting, escaping, emptying, seeping, placing and the like into or upon any land or water or air or otherwise entering into the Environment.
Release
"" means, collectively, Discovery and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries from and after the Closing Date.
Remaining Discovery Group
"" means the Subsidiaries of Discovery other than FoundryCo and the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and the Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities.
Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries
"" means all action to (a) clean up, remove, treat or handle in any other way Hazardous Materials in the Environment, (b) prevent the Release of Hazardous Materials so that they do not migrate, endanger or threaten to endanger public health or the Environment, or (c) perform remedial investigations, feasibility studies, corrective actions, closures and post-remedial or post-closure studies, investigations, operations, maintenance and monitoring.
Remedial Action
"" means: (i) the HSR Approval; (ii) the Additional Competition Approvals; (iii) the CFIUS Clearance; (iv) the receipt of Export Licenses for certain U. S. Transferred FoundryCo Employees from the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security; and (v) the consents of the European Union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the state of Saxony to the extent required under the Term Loan Facility Agreement, the AMTC Credit Agreement, the BAC Credit Agreement and related documents with respect to the implementation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, in particular the resulting replacement of Discovery by FoundryCo or one or more of its Subsidiaries as obligor under any transaction documents relating thereto.
Required Authorizations
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933.
Securities Act
"" means the Technology, other than the Discovery Excluded Technology, owned by Discovery immediately prior to the Closing Date and used by Discovery both for the design and/or post-FoundryCo delivery testing of semiconductor products and for the manufacture, sorting and/or intermediate (WIP) testing of semiconductor products. Without limiting the foregoing, Design Rules used by Discovery prior to the Closing Date shall be deemed "Shared Technology."
Shared Technology
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit X hereto, among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo relating to the roles of Oyster and Discovery as shareholders of FoundryCo following the Closing.
Shareholders' Agreement
"" means computer software, programs and databases in any form, including Internet web sites, web content and links, source code, object code, operating systems and specifications, database management code, utilities, graphical user interfaces, menus, software engines, platforms and data formats, all versions, updates, corrections, enhancements and modifications thereof, and all related documentation, developer notes, comments and annotations.
Software
"" means options to purchase Discovery Common Stock pursuant to the Stock Option Plans, and other options granted to employees and directors of Discovery that are outstanding as of the date hereof.
Stock Option
 
"" means Discovery's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, Discovery's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, Discovery's 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, Discovery's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, Discovery's 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and the Discovery Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Stock Option Plans
"" or "," with respect to any Person, means any and all corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures, associations and other entities controlled by such Person, directly or indirectly or in which such Person directly or indirectly has at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting power to elect the board of directors or other governing body of such entity, provided, that, solely for the purposes of this Agreement, neither FoundryCo nor any member of the FoundryCo Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Discovery following the Closing.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
"" means a lien for Taxes.
Tax Lien
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, entered into as of the date hereof among Oyster and Discovery.
Tax Matters Agreement
"" means any return, declaration, report, election, claim for refund or information return or other statement or form filed or required to be filed with any Tax authority relating to Taxes, including any schedule or attachment thereto or any amendment thereof.
Tax Returns
"" means any and all taxes, fees, levies, duties, tariffs, imposts, and other charges of any kind (together with any and all interest, penalties, additions to tax and additional amounts imposed with respect thereto) imposed by any government or taxing authority, including taxes or other charges on or with respect to income, franchises, windfall or other profits, gross receipts, property, sales, use, capital stock, payroll, employment, social security, workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, or net worth; taxes or other charges in the nature of excise, withholding, ad valorem, stamp, transfer, value added, or gains taxes; license, registration and documentation fees; and customs' duties, tariffs, and similar charges.
Taxes
"" means all computer software (in source code or object code form), documentation, works of authorship, mask works, know-how, data and data bases, formulas, algorithms, processes, inventions and discoveries (whether or not patented), ideas, concepts, techniques, methods, content, technical information, engineering, production and other designs, drawings, schematics, device models, specifications, confidential information, and all other information, technology and materials, tangible or otherwise.
Technology
"" means the Euro 700 Million Term Loan Facility Agreement, dated April 21, 2004, as amended, as described in the Discovery SEC Documents, together with all "Finance Documents" and "Transaction Documents," as such terms are defined in the Term Loan Facility Agreement.
Term Loan Facility Agreement
"" means any Person other than any of the Parties or any of their respective Affiliates.
Third Person
"" means trade secrets, know-how and other confidential or proprietary technical, business and other information, including manufacturing and production processes and techniques, research and development information, technology, drawings, specifications, designs, plans, proposals, technical data, financial, marketing and business data, pricing and cost information, business and marketing plans, customer and supplier lists and information, and all rights in any jurisdiction to limit the use or disclosure thereof.
Trade Secrets
"" means trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, corporate names, URL addresses, domain names and symbols, slogans and other indicia of source or origin, including the goodwill of the business symbolized thereby or associated therewith, common law rights thereto, registrations and applications for registration thereof throughout the world, all rights therein provided by international treaties and conventions, and all other rights associated therewith.
Trademarks
 
"" means this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the Carve Out Financial Statements, the Pre-Signing Financial Statements, the FoundryCo Business Plan, the FoundryCo Capitalization Table, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and any instrument, agreement, certificate, report or other document delivered pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" means AMTC and Maskhouse Building Administration GmbH & Co. KG ("").
Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities
BAC
"" means:
Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means all shares, partnership interests and similar profits interests related to Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries and Transferred FoundryCo JV Entities.
Transferred Interests
"" means all raw materials, work-in progress, packaging, labels, and related supplies, but excluding finished goods maintained, held or stored by or for AMD Saxony Limited Liability Company and Co. KG or AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, and any prepaid deposits for any of the same.
Transferred Inventories
"" means (a) written licenses (including grants of use, covenants not to assert or similar agreements) of Owned Intellectual Property by Discovery or its Subsidiaries to third parties, (b) licenses (including grants of use, covenants not to assert or similar agreements) of Licensed Intellectual Property by Third Persons to Discovery and its Subsidiaries and (c) agreements between Discovery and third parties relating to the development or use of Owned Intellectual Property.
Transferred IP Agreements
"" means all (i) Assigned Patents and (ii) Patents assigned to FoundryCo pursuant to the IP HoldCo Operating Agreement.
Transferred Patents
"" means all Software owned by Discovery and (a) material to the operation of the FoundryCo business or used exclusively in the FoundryCo business as currently conducted or (b) manufactured, distributed, sold, licensed or marketed by Discovery in connection with the operation of the FoundryCo Assets or the Transferred FoundryCo Subsidiaries.
Transferred Software
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit T hereto, between Discovery and FoundryCo relating to the provision of transition services by Discovery to FoundryCo and by FoundryCo to Discovery following the Closing.
Transition Services Agreement
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the LCIA Rules.
Tribunal
"" means that certain Wafer Purchase Agreement, effective as of October 1, 2007, between Discovery and Discovery Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG.
Wafer Purchase Agreement
 
"" means the Ancillary Agreement, in the form of Exhibit K hereto, between Discovery and FoundryCo relating to the manufacture and sale of wafers to Discovery by FoundryCo following the Closing.
Wafer Supply Agreement
"" means shares of Discovery Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants.
Warrant Shares
"" means warrants to purchase thirty million (30,000,000) shares of Discovery Common Stock in the form set forth as Exhibit J.
Warrants
. The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Sections set forth below:
Table of Additional Definitions
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT (this "" and as referred to herein, this ""), dated as of [                    ], 2008 is entered into by and among Discovery, a Delaware corporation (""), Oyster, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly-owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi ("") (each of Discovery and Oyster being a "" and together the ""), and FoundryCo, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo are sometimes referred to herein as the "", and each individually as a "".
Shareholders' Agreement
Agreement
Discovery
Oyster
Shareholder
Shareholders
FoundryCo
Parties
Party
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto are parties to the Master Transaction Agreement that provides, among other things, for the formation of FoundryCo under the laws of the Cayman Islands to act as the holding company for a joint venture between Discovery and Oyster;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement and immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement, Discovery has contributed or caused its Subsidiaries to contribute to FoundryCo, and FoundryCo has acquired from Discovery and its Subsidiaries, the FoundryCo Assets in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Discovery (or a Subsidiary of Discovery) of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement and immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement, Oyster (i) has contributed cash to FoundryCo in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Oyster of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement and the issuance of the Initial Convertible Notes and (ii) has contributed cash to Discovery in consideration of the transfer by Discovery to Oyster of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement; and
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo will have entered into the Funding Agreement pursuant to which Oyster has committed to, and Discovery has the option to, make additional capital contributions, in accordance with the terms thereof, to FoundryCo in exchange for additional Preferred Shares and/or Additional Convertible Notes.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01
Certain Defined Terms
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings referred to or ascribed to such terms in Appendix A.
SECTION 1.02
Interpretation and Rules of Construction
In this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise provided or that the context otherwise requires:
(a) when a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or a Schedule or Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;
(b) the table of contents and headings for this Agreement are for reference purposes only and do not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(c) whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(d) the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
(e) all terms defined in this Agreement have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein;
(f) the definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms;
(g) whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms;
(h) any Law defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such Law or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws, and any rules and regulations promulgated under such Laws;
(i) any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days;
(j) references to a Person are also to its successors and permitted assigns; and
(k) the use of "or" is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise.
SECTION 2.01
Share Capital
The share capital of FoundryCo Outstanding as of the date hereof shall consist of (i) two (2) Class A Ordinary Shares, one each issued to Discovery and Oyster, respectively; (ii) no Class B Ordinary Shares; (iii) two million sixteen thousand four hundred twenty-six (2,016,426) Class A Preferred Shares and (iv) one million three hundred forty-four thousand two hundred eighty-four (1,344,284) Class B Preferred Shares. The rights of the holders of the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class B Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares are as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
SECTION 2.02
Voting
(a) In accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association, prior to the Reconciliation Event, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares shall be non-voting and only the Class A Ordinary Shares shall have voting rights of one vote per Class A Ordinary Share. Discovery and Oyster shall each be a holder of one Class A Ordinary Share and FoundryCo shall not issue any additional Class A Ordinary Shares. Following the Reconciliation Event and in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Class A Ordinary Shares shall be automatically redeemed and the voting rights of the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares shall be given effect.
 
(b) Subject to the provisions set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and this , each Shareholder then entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo shall have the right to vote all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof.
Section 2.02
SECTION 2.03
Board of Directors
(a) Prior to the Reconciliation Event, the Board shall consist of eight Directors, and Discovery and Oyster, each as a holder of one Class A Ordinary Share, shall each be entitled to designate for nomination four (4) Directors. Prior to the Reconciliation Event, no Officers of FoundryCo shall sit on the Board.
(b) Following the Reconciliation Event, the number of Persons a Shareholder may designate for nomination to serve as a Director shall be subject to adjustment according to the percentage of Fully Diluted Shares held by such Shareholder as follows: (i) a Shareholder holding 30% or more but less than 40% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate three (3) Directors; (ii) a Shareholder holding 20% or more but less than 30% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate two (2) Directors; (iii) a Shareholder holding 10% or more but less than 20% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate one (1) Director and (iv) a Shareholder holding less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall have no right pursuant to this Agreement to designate Persons for nomination to serve as Directors. To the extent the number of Directors a Shareholder shall be entitled to nominate is reduced pursuant to this , then, so long as any other Shareholder owns at least a majority of the Fully Diluted Shares, such other Shareholder shall be entitled to designate all of the remaining Directors.
Section 2.03(b)
(c) Each Shareholder shall make the nominations to which it is entitled hereunder at least fifteen (15) days prior to each general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo or, if FoundryCo elects not to hold a general meeting of shareholders, on or prior to the date on which FoundryCo's shareholders shall adopt a written resolution with respect to the foregoing matters. Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any general meeting of shareholders, or adopt a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of electing to the Board the nominees of Discovery and Oyster designated pursuant to and .
Sections 2.03(a)
(b)
(d) Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Discovery and Oyster, the Chairman of the Board shall be a non-voting position held by a non-Director and the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall include: (i) providing guidance regarding the long-term strategy of FoundryCo; (ii) developing external relationships with governmental organizations, customers and suppliers; (iii) representing FoundryCo at industry forums; (iv) shaping the agenda for the Board with input from Oyster and Discovery; and (v) overseeing and driving the preparation phase of the Abu Dhabi fab build-out.
(e) No member of the Board shall (i) have the ability to act unilaterally; (ii) veto any action of the Board or (iii) have the casting vote with respect to any matter to be voted upon by the Board.
(f) Board meetings may be called by any Board member upon three (3) days' written notice to all other Board members. Such notice shall include a written agenda for the subjects to be considered at such meeting. The Board may not act on any subject not specified in such agenda except (i) after receiving written waivers of such notice from all Board members who were not given such notice and were not present at such meeting or (ii) upon such written consent or vote (including for such purposes, any express recusals) as may be required for such matters under this Agreement, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable Law, including the affirmative vote or express abstentions from voting of those Board members who were not given such notice.
 
(g) The Board shall conduct meetings no less frequently than quarterly and at such locations as a majority of the members of the Board deem appropriate.
(h) Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board by means of a conference telephone or other communication equipment through which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, which shall be provided at all Board meetings if requested by a Director, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
SECTION 2.04
Removal of Board Members; Vacancies
(a) A Shareholder may at any time elect to remove or dismiss any member of the Board appointed or nominated by such Shareholder pursuant to , with or without cause. Upon such election, each other Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of the removal or dismissal of any such Board member. In the event that the number of members of the Board nominated by a Shareholder exceeds the number that such Shareholder has the right to nominate pursuant to , such Shareholder shall promptly take all appropriate action to cause any such extra members of the Board nominated by such Shareholder to immediately resign or alternatively shall take such measures as are necessary to remove or dismiss such extra members.
Section 2.03
Section 2.03
(b) In the event that a vacancy occurs on the Board as a result of the retirement, removal, dismissal, resignation, disability or death of a member thereof nominated pursuant to , such vacancy shall be filled by a person nominated by the Shareholder whose nominee's retirement, removal, dismissal, resignation, disability or death created such vacancy. Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of the election of any person so nominated to fill a vacancy on the Board.
Section 2.03
(c) Each Shareholder hereby agrees that it will not vote (or execute any written resolutions with respect to) any Shares of which it is the registered holder or any other Shares for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof in favor of the removal, dismissal or suspension of any member of the Board that any other Shareholder had the right to nominate unless such other Shareholder shall have consented to or requested such removal or dismissal in writing.
SECTION 2.05
Committees
(a) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that there shall be established a people/compensation committee of the Board (the ""), which shall make recommendations to the full Board for matters including, but not limited to, management compensation, and the adoption of or amendment to FoundryCo benefits plans and Incentive Plans. The Board shall establish a People/Compensation Committee Charter setting forth in further detail the powers and duties of the People/Compensation Committee. The People/Compensation Committee shall initially consist of at least two (2) members of the Board, including at least one Director nominated by Discovery and at least one Director nominated by Oyster. The Chairman of the People/Compensation Committee shall be a Director nominated by Oyster initially and thereafter shall rotate annually between a Director nominated by Discovery and a Director nominated by Oyster. The People/Compensation Committee shall meet no less frequently than quarterly at such place and time as shall be determined by the People/Compensation Committee Chairman.
People/Compensation Committee
(b) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that there shall be established a finance and audit committee of the Board (the ""), which shall assist the Board in its responsibilities
Finance and Audit Committee
 
relating to reviewing financial matters generally, including, but not limited to, the accounting and financial reporting processes of FoundryCo, the audits of FoundryCo's consolidated financial statements, the qualifications of FoundryCo's independent auditor and the performance of FoundryCo's internal audit function and independent auditor. The Board shall establish a Finance and Audit Committee Charter setting forth in further detail the powers and duties of the Finance and Audit Committee. The Finance and Audit Committee shall initially consist of at least two (2) members of the Board, including at least one Director nominated by Discovery and at least one Director nominated by Oyster. The Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee shall be a Director nominated by Discovery initially and thereafter shall rotate annually between a Director nominated by Oyster and a Director nominated by Discovery. The Finance and Audit Committee shall meet no less frequently than quarterly at such place and time as shall be determined by the Finance and Audit Committee Chairman.
(c) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that from time to time the Board may establish such other committees to assist the Board in its responsibilities, including a security committee which shall oversee FoundryCo's compliance with any security and compliance-related commitments to the U.S. government as well as the overall security of FoundryCo, including the protection of FoundryCo's technology and compliance with U.S. export control requirements.
SECTION 2.06
Officers
(a) The Shareholders shall cause the Board to approve the appointment of the following initial senior executive officers of FoundryCo: (i) Doug Grose as Chief Executive Officer; (ii) [                    ]
1
as Chief Financial Officer; and (iii) such other officers as determined and appointed by the People/Compensation Committee.
SECTION 2.07 FoundryCo shall seek additional financing, and the Shareholders shall make additional capital contributions, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Additional Financings.
SECTION 2.08
Certain Other Corporate Actions
(a) At all times, subject to and , FoundryCo shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, take (either directly or by amendment, merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) (and each Shareholder agrees to vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders against (and to refuse to execute a written resolution that seeks the authority to approve)) any action not in the ordinary course of business, unless the Board shall first have approved such action by Majority Vote; , , that the Board may by resolution require prior notification or the Board's prior approval for any actions to be taken in the ordinary course of business; , that in the event a matter which would otherwise require approval under this has been expressly included in either the Five-Year Capital Plan or the Annual Business Plan, which has been approved by the Board or the Shareholders in accordance with this Agreement and the Funding Agreement, as applicable, no further Board approval shall be required hereunder.
Section 2.08(b)
Section 6.01(b)
provided
however
provided further
Section 2.08
(b) In addition to such authorizations or approvals by the Board or shareholders as may be required by applicable Law, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or the constituent documents of each of FoundryCo's Subsidiaries or the other provisions of this Agreement, and subject to and , FoundryCo shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, take (either directly or by amendment, merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) (and each Shareholder agrees to vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability
Section 6.01(b)
Section 7.01(b)(i)
 
 
to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders against (and to refuse to execute a written resolution that seeks the authority to approve)) any of the following actions, unless all of the members of the Board shall have first approved such action:
(i) implementing material changes in the purpose or scope of FoundryCo's activities or engaging in any material activity unrelated to FoundryCo's business that materially adversely affects FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
(ii) a change in the number of Directors on the Board;
(iii) the amendment or restatement of its constituent documents;
(iv) any transaction resulting in a change of control of FoundryCo or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries other than to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or, following termination of the Restricted Period, to a Permitted Transferee; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(v) the entering into of any acquisition, joint venture, divestiture, transfer, sale, assignment, lease, license or disposal of any property or asset, real, personal or mixed (including leasehold interests and intangible assets), which have a value in excess of $25 million singly or $50 million in the aggregate other than with FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or, following termination of the Restricted Period, to a Permitted Transferee; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(vi) approval of any material amendment, modification or revision to the initial Five-Year Capital Plan;
(vii) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto;
(viii) the authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Shares or other equity interest (or option, warrant, conversion or similar right with respect to any equity interest) in or of FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or any Incentive Plan;
(ix) the declaration, making or payment of any dividend, distribution or transfer (whether in cash, securities or other property) to shareholders;
(x) the entering into or the amendment of (A) any of the Transaction Documents, (B) any Incentive Plan or (C) any agreement, contract or arrangement by FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to pay or is entitled to receive payments in excess of $15 million over the term of such contract;
(xi)(A) the sale, license, sublicense, assignment, transfer, termination or other disposition of any Intellectual Property right owned by or licensed to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) any amendment of any license from or to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries of any Intellectual Property, or (C) any covenants or agreements not to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of any Intellectual Property, other than any of the foregoing in the ordinary course of the business of FoundryCo or, with respect to any of the foregoing involving a Subsidiary of FoundryCo, the business of such Subsidiary;
(xii) the prosecution, commencement or settlement of any litigation or administrative action for an amount in excess of $10 million in any such prosecution, commencement or settlement or series of related prosecutions, commencements or settlements or waiving or relinquishing any material rights or claims;
(xiii) the making of any loan, investment or expenditure (or series of related expenditures) not reflected in the Annual Business Plan involving more than $5 million singly or $10 million in the aggregate;
(xiv) the incurrence of any indebtedness or subjecting any of its properties or assets to any lien, claim or encumbrance or the giving of any material guarantee or indemnity, in each case to the extent not reflected
 
in the Annual Business Plan, which would result in an increase of 5% or more of the total indebtedness contemplated in the Annual Business Plan;
(xv) the consummation of any Public Offering of securities;
(xvi) the appointment or termination of FoundryCo's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer;
(xvii) the determination of when the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
(xviii) the entering into of any transaction, agreement or arrangement between FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any Officer, Director, Affiliate or Shareholder, on the other hand, (other than the transactions provided for in or contemplated by the Transaction Documents) unless the total consideration expected to be paid or received by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as whole as a result of such transaction or proposed change or waiver shall not exceed $25 million; and
(xix) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (i) - (xviii).
(c) In the event of an inconsistency between FoundryCo's Articles of Association and this Agreement, the Shareholders shall exercise their voting rights to amend the Articles of Association to remove such inconsistency.
SECTION 2.09
Acknowledgment Regarding Fiduciary Duties
Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, create or impose any fiduciary duty on any of the Shareholders (in their capacity as a holder of Shares) or their respective Affiliates.
SECTION 2.10
Delivery of Notice for General Meeting and Board Meeting
In addition to any other manner of delivery permitted by the Memorandum and Articles of Association, each Shareholder consents to the delivery of notices of any general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo by electronic mail at the address and upon the terms set forth in for such Party. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Shareholder may withdraw such consent or change the applicable electronic mail address for purposes of such Shareholder notices at any time upon written notice to FoundryCo without the approval of any other Party hereto.
Section 8.02
SECTION 3.01
General Rules
(a) For purposes of this , Securities held by Discovery shall include any Securities held by any Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Discovery and Securities held by Oyster shall include any Securities held by any Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Oyster, and any offers or acceptances to purchase or sell Securities made to or by Discovery or Oyster shall have been deemed to have been made to or by the respective Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Discovery or Oyster.
Article III
(b) No Shareholder shall, directly or indirectly, make or solicit any Sale of Securities, or create, incur, solicit or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities, except in compliance with this Agreement and any applicable securities laws.
 
(c) Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of any resolution to procure any transfer in compliance with the provisions of this and to prohibit any transfer not in compliance with this . The Shareholders shall cause the members of the Board to vote in accordance with the provisions of this .
Article III
Article III
Article III
(d) Immediately prior to the IPO, the Convertible Notes shall convert into Class A Preferred Shares or Class B Preferred Shares, as applicable, and all Preferred Shares shall convert into Class B Ordinary Shares, in each case pursuant to the terms thereof.
SECTION 3.02
General Restrictions on Transfer
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that the Class A Ordinary Shares are non-transferable.
(b) Each Shareholder agrees that, without the consent of the other Shareholder, it will not participate in any Sale of Securities if (i) prior to the Reconciliation Event, such Sale of Securities would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; (ii) such Sale of Securities is made to Intel Corporation ("") or any Affiliates of Intel or (iii) such Sale of Securities is made to any competitor of FoundryCo.
Intel
SECTION 3.03
Certain Restrictions on Transfer
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that, prior to the earliest of (i) [                    ], 20[18], (ii) such time as the Abu Dhabi cluster is operational with a steady-state yield and volumes of at least seventy-five thousand (75,000) Wafer Starts on Qualified Processes per month, as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, or (iii) the termination of the Transition Period under the Funding Agreement (the ""), it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities, or create, incur or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities held by such Shareholder, or enter into any other transaction pursuant to which it or any of its Permitted Transferees shall receive any consideration in cash or other property in connection with such Securities (other than as a distribution thereon by FoundryCo), other than:
Restricted Period
(i) with the prior written consent of the other Shareholder;
(ii) any Sale of Securities to (A) a Permitted Transferee in compliance with the provisions of this , or (B) the other Shareholder;
Article III
(iii) each of Discovery and Oyster (and any of their Permitted Transferees holding Shares) shall be entitled to sell up to 25% of its Fully Diluted Shares (measured at the time of the IPO) in the IPO; , , that any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo shall be given first priority to be included in the IPO and as among the Shareholders wishing to sell Securities, the number of Securities to be included in the IPO shall be allocated pro rata based on the amount of Securities each Shareholder (and its Permitted Transferees) proposes to sell; , that any Securities to be included in the IPO on behalf of Discovery and Oyster and their respective Permitted Transferees shall be given priority over any other Shareholder or any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries; , that, with respect only to Discovery or any of its Permitted Transferees, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
provided
however
provided further
and provided further
(iv) in each year following the IPO, each of Discovery and Oyster (and any of their Permitted Transferees holding Shares) shall be entitled to sell up to an equal amount of its Fully Diluted Shares as permitted under pursuant to (A) a Public Offering, or (B) an offering exempt from registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or similar non-U.S. applicable Law, if any, , that any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo shall be given first priority to
Section 3.03(a)(iii)
provided, however
 
be included in any such Public Offering and as among the Shareholders wishing to sell Securities, the number of Securities to be included in any such Public Offering shall be allocated pro rata based on the amount of Securities each Shareholder (and its Permitted Transferees) proposes to sell; , that any Securities to be included in any such Public Offering on behalf of Discovery and Oyster and their respective Permitted Transferees shall be given priority over any other Shareholder or any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries; , that, with respect only to Discovery or any of its Permitted Transferees, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
provided further
and provided further
(v) in each year following the IPO, including the year of the IPO, (A) with respect to Discovery, to pledge up to an equal amount of Fully Diluted Shares as permitted for sale under ; , that, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred, and (B) with respect to Oyster, to pledge up to all of its Fully Diluted Shares; or
Section 3.03(a)(iii)
provided however
(vi) any Sale of Securities by Oyster or its Permitted Transferees pursuant to .
Section 5.01
(b) Each Shareholder agrees that, following the end of the Restricted Period, it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities, or create, incur or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities held by such Shareholder, or enter into any other transaction pursuant to which it or any of its Permitted Transferees shall receive any consideration in cash or other property in connection with such Securities (other than as a distribution thereon by FoundryCo) other than (i) pursuant to the exceptions set forth in above or (ii) any Sale of Securities for cash or readily marketable securities that is made in compliance with the procedures, and subject to the limitations, set forth in , , and .
Section 3.03(a)
Sections 3.05
3.06
3.07
3.08
SECTION 3.04
Permitted Transferees
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Sale of Securities may be made to a Permitted Transferee. However, no Sale of Securities to a Permitted Transferee shall be effective if a purpose or effect of such transfer shall have been to circumvent the provisions of this . Each Shareholder shall remain responsible for the performance of this Agreement by each Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder to which Securities are transferred. If any Permitted Transferee to which Securities are transferred in accordance with this ceases to be a Permitted Transferee of the Shareholder from which or whom it acquired such Securities, such Person shall reconvey such Securities to such transferring Shareholder immediately before such Person ceases to be a Permitted Transferee of such transferring Shareholder so long as such Person knows of its upcoming change of status immediately prior thereto. If such change of status is not known until after its occurrence, the former Permitted Transferee shall make such transfer to such transferring Shareholder as soon as practicable after the former Permitted Transferee receives notice thereof.
Article III
Article III
(b) Each Permitted Transferee shall enter into a joinder agreement pursuant to .
Section 3.09(a)
SECTION 3.05
Right of First Offer
(a) The provisions of this shall survive the IPO.
Section 3.05
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , if at any time during the term of this Agreement, a Shareholder (the "") desires to effect a Sale of Securities to a Third Party or Third Parties, the Prospective Seller shall deliver a written notice (an "") thereof to FoundryCo and the other Shareholder (the ""), which notice shall set forth all of the material terms and conditions, including the number of Securities proposed to be sold (the "") and the proposed purchase price per Share (the "") (which shall be payable solely in cash or freely marketable securities in one lump sum payment), on which the Prospective Seller offers to sell the Offered Securities to FoundryCo and the Other Shareholder (the "").
Section 3.03(b)
Prospective Seller
Offer Notice
Other Shareholder
Offered Securities
Offer Price
Offer
(c) The receipt of an Offer Notice by the Other Shareholder shall constitute an offer by the Prospective Seller to sell to the Other Shareholder. Such Offer shall be irrevocable for thirty (30) days (the "")
Offer Period
 
after receipt of such Offer Notice by the Other Shareholder. During the Offer Period, the Other Shareholder shall have the right to accept such offer as to any or all of the Offered Securities by giving a written notice of acceptance (the "") to the Prospective Seller prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, which notice shall specify the number of Offered Securities to be purchased by the Other Shareholder. Alternatively, if the threshold set forth in is met, the Other Shareholder shall have the right and option to notify the Prospective Seller of the Other Shareholder's interest in selling along with the Prospective Seller to a Third Party (the "") pursuant to .
Notice of Acceptance
Section 3.07(b)
Tag Along Offer
Section 3.07
(d) The consummation of any such purchase by and sale to the Other Shareholder shall take place not later than ten (10) days after the expiration of the Offer Period (unless a later date shall be required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law). Upon the consummation of such purchase and sale, the Prospective Seller shall (i) deliver to the Other Shareholder the Securities purchased, free and clear of any Encumbrances (other than this Agreement and applicable Law) and (ii) assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to such Securities against payment of the purchase price contained in the Offer.
(e) In the event that (i) the Other Shareholder shall not have elected during the Offer Period to purchase all the Offered Securities or (ii) the Other Shareholder shall have failed to consummate a purchase of Securities with respect to which a Notice of Acceptance was given, the Prospective Seller shall not be obligated to sell any Offered Securities to the Other Shareholder and, subject to its obligations under and , shall have the right to sell the Offered Securities (the "") to a Third Party or Third Parties so long as all the Unaccepted Securities are sold or otherwise disposed of by the Prospective Seller (A) within ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Offer Period or such longer period (up to the maximum period permitted by applicable Law) as would be required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law, and (B) at a price not less than the Offer Price included in the Offer Notice.
Section 3.06
3.07
Unaccepted Securities
SECTION 3.06
Right of Last Look
(a) The provisions of this shall survive the IPO.
Section 3.06
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , a Prospective Seller shall not consummate any Sale of Securities to a Third Party without offering in writing at least ten (10) Business Days prior to the consummation of the Sale of Securities, the Other Shareholder the right to acquire the Offered Securities for the purchase price set forth in this and otherwise on the terms and conditions offered by the Third Party (the ""). The Last Look Notice shall contain (i) the name and address of the Third Party and any Person who controls such Third Party, (ii) the proposed amount and form of consideration to be delivered by the Third Party in the transaction and a calculation of the purchase price applicable to the Other Shareholder, (iii) the material terms of such transaction, and (iv) the proposed closing date. The Other Shareholder shall have five (5) Business Days to notify the Prospective Seller of its intentions to purchase the Securities on the terms and conditions set forth above (the "");
Section 3.03(b)
Section 3.06
Last Look Notice
Last Look Acceptance Notice
(c) To the extent that the Other Shareholder elects not to exercise its purchase right under this or does not timely deliver a Last Look Acceptance Notice, the Prospective Seller shall be permitted to consummate its transaction with the Third Party not later than five (5) Business Days after the expiration of the period of time for the Other Shareholder to deliver the Last Look Acceptance Notice. Alternatively, if the Other Shareholder timely delivers the Last Look Acceptance Notice, the Other Shareholder must consummate the acquisition of Securities on or before the proposed closing date identified in the Last Look Notice.
Section 3.06
SECTION 3.07
Tag-Along Rights
(a) The provisions of this shall terminate upon the IPO.
Section 3.07
(b)(i) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , no Prospective Seller shall sell any Offered Securities held by it, if such Offered Securities constitute more than 10% of the then
Section 3.03(b)
 
Fully Diluted Shares, unless each Other Shareholder is provided the Offer Notice set forth in and is offered the right and option to sell pursuant to such disposition up to the same percentage of Securities held by it as the percentage of Securities held by the Prospective Seller as the Prospective Seller proposes to sell.
Section 3.05
(ii) The Other Shareholder desiring to exercise such option shall, prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, provide the Prospective Seller with a written notice specifying the number of Securities as to which such Other Shareholder (the "") has an interest in selling pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer (a ""), and shall cooperate in such manner as the Prospective Seller shall reasonably request to permit the sale of such Securities pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer.
Tag-Along Offered Securities
Tag-Along Notice of Interest
(iii) If the Third Party is unwilling to buy all of the Offered Securities, then the allocation of the Securities to be sold in the Tag-Along Offer shall be made pro rata based on the number of Securities each Shareholder proposes to sell.
(iv) Promptly after the consummation of the Sale of Securities of the Prospective Seller and the Other Shareholder to the Third Party or Parties pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer, the Prospective Seller shall remit to the Other Shareholder the total sales price of the Securities of the Other Shareholder sold pursuant thereto less the portion (based on sales price of Securities being sold by the respective parties) of the out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable legal expenses) incurred by the Prospective Seller in connection with such sale; , , that the Other Shareholder shall not be liable for any such expenses in the event that such sale is not consummated.
pro rata
provided
however
(v) If at the end of the Offer Period the Other Shareholder shall not have given a Tag-Along Notice of Interest, the Other Shareholder shall be deemed to have waived its rights under this with respect to the sale pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer with respect to which a Tag-Along Notice of Interest shall not have been given.
Section 3.07
(vi) If, at the end of the twenty (20)-day period following the giving of the Offer Notice (or such later date as is required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law), the Prospective Seller has not completed the sale of all the Tag-Along Offered Securities made available to the Prospective Seller pursuant to , the Prospective Seller shall return to the Other Shareholder all certificates and documents provided to the Prospective Seller by the Other Shareholder pursuant to ; , , that the Prospective Seller shall not be relieved of its obligation to sell the Securities of the Other Shareholder in the event that such sale is ultimately completed with such Third Party or Parties.
Section 3.07(b)(ii)
Section 3.07(b)(ii)
provided
however
(vii) Except as expressly provided in this , no Prospective Seller shall have any obligation to the Other Shareholder with respect to the sale of any Securities held by the Other Shareholder in connection with this . No Other Shareholder shall be entitled to sell and transfer Securities directly to any Third Party pursuant to a Tag-Along Offer (it being understood that all such sales shall be made only on the terms and pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3.07).
Section 3.07
Section 3.07
SECTION 3.08
Drag-Along Rights
(a) The provisions of this shall terminate upon the IPO.
Section 3.08
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , in the event that any Shareholder that, together with its Permitted Transferees, holds at least 75% of the Fully Diluted Shares (the "") proposes to sell all of its Securities in a bona fide transaction to a Third Party, then the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have the unconditional right to effect the sale of all (but not less than all) of such Securities in either a private or public sale, at the option of the Dragging-Along Shareholder (such transaction, the ""). In such event, the Dragging-Along Shareholder may, at its option, require the other Shareholder (the "") to sell all of the Securities then held by or registered in the names of such Dragged-Along Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees ("") to the Third Party or Parties in the Drag-Along Transaction for the same consideration and otherwise on the same terms and conditions upon which the Dragging-Along Shareholder sells its Securities, subject to
Section 3.03(b)
Dragging-Along Shareholder
Drag-Along Transaction
Dragged-Along Shareholder
Drag-Along Offered Securities
 
. Each Shareholder hereby agrees that it will vote in favor of (or execute any written resolutions with respect to) any transaction required by this and to take such further actions as may be reasonably required to effect such transaction, in each case, to the extent not consistent with this Agreement. In the event of a Drag-Along Transaction, none of the provisions of and , , , and shall apply.
Section 3.08(f)
Section 3.08(b)
Sections 3.02(b)(i)
(b)(iii)
3.05
3.06
3.07
(c) The Dragging-Along Shareholder shall provide a written notice (the "") of such Drag-Along Transaction (the "") to the Dragged-Along Shareholder not later than thirty (30) days prior to the consummation of the sale contemplated by the Drag-Along Offer. The Drag-Along Notice shall contain written notice of the exercise of the Dragging-Along Shareholder's rights pursuant to , and shall identify the Third Party or Parties making the Drag-Along Offer, the consideration offered per Share and all other material terms and conditions of the Drag-Along Offer. Within twenty (20) days following the date the Drag-Along Notice is given, the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall cooperate in such manner as the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall reasonably request to permit the sale of the Securities requested from each such Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer, and shall enter into a sale agreement with respect to the sale of the Securities of the Dragging-Along Shareholder and the Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer and shall reasonably cooperate in the transfer of these Securities to the relevant Third Party; , , that the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties in such sale agreement other than with respect to the Dragged-Along Shareholder's authority to enter into the sale agreement and ownership of the Securities to be sold by the Dragged-Along Shareholder. The Company shall in connection with the transfer of the relevant Securities to the relevant Third Party request the Board to adopt a resolution to grant the approval for such transfer of Securities pursuant to the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Drag-Along Notice
Drag-Along Offer
Section 3.08(b)
provided
however
(d) Promptly after the consummation of the sale of Securities pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer and receipt of consideration therefor, the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall remit to the Dragged-Along Shareholder the sales proceeds received by the Dragging-Along Shareholders of the Securities of such Dragged-Along Shareholder sold pursuant thereto less a pro rata portion of the out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable legal expenses) incurred by the Dragging-Along Shareholder in connection with such sale; , , that the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall not be liable for any such expenses in the event that such sale is not consummated.
provided
however
(e) If, at the end of the sixty (60)-day period following the giving of the Drag-Along Notice, the Dragging-Along Shareholder has not completed the sale of all its Securities and the Securities of the Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to , the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall return to the Dragged-Along Shareholder such documents as it shall reasonably request, and the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall no longer be obligated to cooperate in such sale and transfer pursuant to with respect to such Drag-Along Offer.
Section 3.08(b)
Section 3.08(b)
(f) Except as expressly provided in , the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have no obligation to the Dragged-Along Shareholder with respect to the contemplated sale of any Securities held by such Dragged-Along Shareholder in connection with this . The Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have no obligation to the Dragged-Along Shareholder to sell and transfer any Drag-Along Offered Securities pursuant to this or as a result of any decision by the Dragging-Along Shareholder not to accept or consummate any Drag-Along Offer (it being understood that any and all such decisions shall be made by the Dragging-Along Shareholder in its sole discretion). No Dragged-Along Shareholder shall be entitled to sell and transfer Securities directly to any Third Party pursuant to a Drag-Along Offer (it being understood that all such sales shall be made only on the terms and pursuant to the procedures set forth in this ).
Section 3.08(d)
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
(g) Upon the consummation of a Drag-Along Transaction, all of the holders of the Securities shall receive the same form and amount of consideration per Security, respectively, taking into account and giving effect to any accrued interest, conversion ratios, liquidation preference and other provisions relating to the nature of
 
consideration, to which the holders of Securities are entitled in accordance with the terms thereof in effect immediately prior to the Drag-Along Transaction, and if any holders of Preferred Shares or Ordinary Shares are given an option as to the form and amount of consideration to be received, all holders shall be given the same option. In addition, such Shareholder shall not be required to accept consideration in a Drag-Along Transaction other than cash and/or freely-tradable equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ Stock Market and/or any other securities exchange or automated quotation system of similar caliber in the United States or elsewhere.
SECTION 3.09
Certain Persons to Execute Agreement
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities to any Permitted Transferee or otherwise unless, prior to the consummation of any such Sale of Securities, the Person to whom such Sale of Securities is proposed to be made (a "") executes and delivers to FoundryCo and each Shareholder an agreement in the form attached hereto as whereby such Prospective Transferee confirms that, with respect to the Securities that are the subject of such Sale of Securities, it shall be deemed to be a "Shareholder" for all purposes of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by all the terms of this Agreement as a "Shareholder"; , , that such Prospective Transferee shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Agreement until such time as such Sale of Securities to such Person has been completed.
Prospective Transferee
Exhibit A
provided
however
(b) The provisions of this shall not apply to any Sale of Securities pursuant to a Public Offering or, following the IPO, pursuant to an offering exempt from registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or similar non-U.S. applicable Law (each such Sale of Securities, a "").
Section 3.09
Public Sale
SECTION 3.10
Equivalent Rights
The Shareholders acknowledge that the Board may determine that it is in the best interests of FoundryCo to effect its IPO on a securities exchange located outside of the United States. The Shareholders and FoundryCo agree that prior to any such IPO each of them shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to amend this Agreement as may be necessary to ensure that the rights of the Shareholders with respect to any Public Offerings in and following the IPO and the sale of Securities in any such Public Offerings are at least equivalent to the rights set forth in this Agreement in respect of sales of Securities in the United States.
SECTION 3.11
Put and Call Options; Fair Market Valuation
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, in the event that a Shareholder's option pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or the Funding Agreement is triggered (i) to put any or all of the Securities held by such Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees to the other Shareholder, or (ii) to purchase any or all of the Securities held by the other Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees, such Shareholder shall have thirty (30) days from the date that it receives notification of the triggering event by the other Shareholder to deliver a written notice (the "") to the other Shareholder electing to exercise such put or call option, as appropriate, and if not so exercised within such thirty (30)-day period, such option shall lapse.
Election Notice
(b) Each Shareholder hereby covenants and agrees that where the provisions of this Agreement and the Funding Agreement indicate that the "Fair Market Value" of the Shares of FoundryCo is to be determined, such Shareholder will take all actions reasonably necessary to determine the Fair Market Value of such Shares in accordance with this .
Section 3.11(b)
(i) The Shareholder wishing to exercise its put or call option pursuant to shall designate an investment banking firm of recognized international standing within fifteen (15) days of the date of the delivery of the Election Notice to determine the Fair Market Value of such Shares. The other Shareholder shall also designate an investment banking firm of recognized international standing within the same time
Section 3.11(a)
 
period. Within thirty (30) days after appointment of both investment banking firms, each investment banking firm shall determine its initial view as to the Fair Market Value of such Shares and shall consult with one another with respect thereto. Within forty-five (45) days after appointment of both investment banking firms, each investment banking firm shall have determined its final view as to the Fair Market Value of such Shares and shall have delivered such final view to the Shareholders.
(ii) If the difference between the higher of the respective final views of the two investment banking firms and the lower of the respective final views of the two investment banking firms is less than 10% of the higher Fair Market Value, then the Fair Market Value determined shall be the average of those two views.
(iii) If the difference between the higher Fair Market Value and the lower Fair Market Value is equal to or greater than 10%, then the Shareholders shall instruct the investment banking firms to jointly designate a third investment banking firm of recognized international standing (the ""). The Mutually Designated Appraiser shall be designated within ten (10) days after the delivery of the final views of the investment banking firms pursuant to and shall within fifteen (15) days of such designation determine its final view as to the Fair Market Value. The final Fair Market Value determination shall be the Fair Market Value of the Mutually Designated Appraiser.
Mutually Designated Appraiser
Section 3.11(b)(i)
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Shareholder does not appoint an investment banking firm within the time periods specified above, such Shareholder shall have waived its rights to appoint an investment firm and determination of the Fair Market Value shall be made solely by the Shareholder who did appoint an investment banking firm.
(c) FoundryCo shall provide reasonable access to each of the designated investment banking firms to members of management of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries and to the books and records of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries in order to allow such investment banking firms to conduct due diligence examinations in scope and duration as are customary in valuations of this kind. Each of the Shareholders and any Permitted Transferees agree to cooperate with each of the investment banking firms to provide such information as may be reasonably requested. Costs of the appraisals shall be borne equally by the Shareholders.
SECTION 4.01
Books and Records; Financial Statements
(a) At all times during the continuance of FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall prepare and maintain separate books of account for FoundryCo that shall show a true and accurate record of all assets, all liabilities, all equity, all investments by owners, all distributions to owners, all comprehensive income, all revenues, all expenses, all gains and all losses, pertaining to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. Such books of account, together with a certified copy of this Agreement and of the constituent documents of FoundryCo, shall at all times be maintained at the principal place of business of FoundryCo. The books of account and the records of FoundryCo shall be examined by and reported upon as of the end of each fiscal year by an internationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm (the ""). For such period as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the Auditors shall be the same independent registered public accounting firm that audits Discovery's consolidated financial statements. Thereafter, the Auditors shall be nominated by Oyster. Each Shareholder shall, regarding the appointment of the Auditors, vote its shares in accordance with the proposal of the Board pursuant to the foregoing sentence.
Auditors
(b) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the following financial information, in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to Discovery (with a copy to Oyster) to permit Discovery to timely consolidate FoundryCo's results
 
into Discovery's consolidated financial statements and to prepare for its quarterly earnings releases and United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("") regulatory filings at the times hereinafter set forth:
SEC
(i) Within four (4) Business Days after the end of each fiscal month (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), the following unaudited financial data:
(A) the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal month;
(B) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal month; and
(C) inventory and other sub-ledger information, including inventory unit quantities, standard costs, product attributes, and reserve calculations for such fiscal month as they pertain to Discovery. Inventory and other sub-ledger information with respect to FoundryCo's customers other than Discovery shall be provided on an aggregated basis at the level necessary for Discovery to comply with applicable SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors.
(ii) Within seven (7) Business Days after the end of each fiscal month (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant cash flow data for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal month.
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within six (6) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant information as may reasonably be requested by Discovery necessary for Discovery to prepare and discuss its quarterly earnings press release in a manner consistent with Discovery's prior practices and disclosures.
(iv) As soon as available and in any event within twelve (12) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), financial and operating data and analysis, including aggregate contractual cash obligations and aggregate unconditional purchase commitments (in each case, without disclosing the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations), necessary for Discovery to prepare its Form 10-Q in compliance with SEC rules and regulations.
(v) As soon as available and in any event within sixteen (16) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), financial and operating data and analysis, including aggregate contractual cash obligations and aggregate unconditional purchase commitments (in each case, without disclosing the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations), necessary for Discovery to prepare its Form 10-K in compliance with SEC rules and regulations.
(vi) Other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Discovery to timely comply with SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations.
provided
however
(c) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall provide financial data and assist in the quarterly review and the annual integrated financial statement audit work
 
performed by Discovery's auditors under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), including the assistance and information needed for Discovery's management representations to Discovery's auditors, and to the extent applicable, by Discovery's internal audit team, based on Discovery's reasonable timeframes and requests; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless such information is necessary for Discovery to complete its assessment of its internal control over financial reporting as required by SOX.
SOX
provided
however
(d) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the fiscal quarters and fiscal years of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries shall end on the same days on which the fiscal quarters and fiscal years of Discovery end.
(e) As soon as available and in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of fiscal year 2009, FoundryCo shall provide Oyster the following financial information, examined by and reported upon by the Auditors and prepared in accordance with IFRS, on the basis of converting from GAAP to IFRS, taking into consideration the material differences between GAAP and IFRS and consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies (it being understood that FoundryCo, and not the Auditors, shall ensure that such financial information is consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies):
(i) the consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(ii) at Oyster's election, either the consolidated statement of shareholders' equity or the consolidated statement of recognized income and expense of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(iii) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(iv) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(v) other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Oyster to timely comply with applicable accounting rules and regulations, including any financial information requirements of the Government of Abu Dhabi Audit Authority or similar Governmental Authority, IFRS and the reasonable requirements of Oyster's auditors (it being understood that such other data may not be examined by the Auditors).
(f) Starting with fiscal year 2010 and for as long as Oyster is required to record FoundryCo's financial results into Oyster's books in accordance with IFRS, FoundryCo shall provide Oyster the following financial information examined by and reported upon by the Auditors at the times hereinafter set forth:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of each fiscal year, the following financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies (it being understood that FoundryCo, and not the Auditors, shall ensure that such financial information is consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies):
(A) the consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(B) at Oyster's election, either the consolidated statement of shareholders' equity or the consolidated statement of recognized income and expense of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(C) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(D) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(E) other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Oyster to timely comply with applicable accounting rules and regulations, including any financial information requirements of the
 
Government of Abu Dhabi Audit Authority or similar Governmental Authority, IFRS and the reasonable requirements of Oyster's auditors (it being understood that such other data may not be examined by the Auditors).
(g) For as long as Discovery is required to use the equity method of accounting to account for FoundryCo's financial results, the following financial information, in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to Discovery (with a copy to Oyster) to permit Discovery to timely account for its share of FoundryCo's operating results and to prepare for its quarterly earnings releases and regulatory filings:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within six (6) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant information as may reasonably be requested by Discovery necessary for Discovery to record its share of FoundryCo's operating results and to prepare and discuss its quarterly earnings press release in a manner consistent with Discovery's prior practices and disclosures.
(ii) As soon as available and in any event within sixteen (16) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), FoundryCo's summary balance sheet and income statement for such fiscal quarter, and other financial disclosures necessary for the preparation of Discovery's Form 10-Q in compliance with SEC rules and regulations;
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within twenty (20) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), FoundryCo's summary balance sheet and income statement for such fiscal year, and other financial disclosures necessary for the preparation of Discovery's Form 10-K in compliance with SEC rules and regulations;
(iv) Other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Discovery to timely comply with SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations;
provided
however
(v) As soon as available and in any event within thirty-two (32) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), the following financial statements prepared in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, examined by and reported upon by the Auditors:
(A) the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(B) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(C) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(D) relevant footnotes as required by SEC Regulation S-X.
The Shareholders acknowledge that the audited annual financial statements set forth in (v) above may be attached as an exhibit to Discovery's Form 10-K, as required by the SEC rules and regulations for unconsolidated significant equity investees.
 
(h) The following financial information, in reasonable detail, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to each member of the Board and each Shareholder at the times hereinafter set forth:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within thirty (30) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Cumulative Revenue and Cumulative Gross Margin (each as defined in the Funding Agreement);
(ii) The proposed Annual Business Plan for the next fiscal year in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Funding Agreement;
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within three (3) weeks of the end of each fiscal month, monthly accounts and progress reports in a form acceptable to Discovery and Oyster, with comparisons against the projected monthly results set forth in the most recent Annual Business Plan;
(iv) Prompt notification of material developments including events that FoundryCo would be required to disclose under Form 8-K of the Exchange Act had FoundryCo been subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act; and
(v) Such other information as is reasonably requested by any Shareholder.
(i) (i) Each of Discovery and Oyster and their respective representatives may, for purposes reasonably related to their interests in FoundryCo, (A) examine and copy (at each Party's own cost and expense) the books and records of FoundryCo, including the documents referred to in Sections 4.01(b)-(h), and (B) have reasonable access, during normal business hours, to FoundryCo's management, employees, plans, properties and other assets to conduct due diligence and other reasonable investigations (including environmental assessments) regarding FoundryCo's business and the FoundryCo Assets (at each Party's own cost and expense), and FoundryCo shall reasonably cooperate with each of Discovery and Oyster in such due diligence and investigations. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in this , FoundryCo shall have the right to withhold certain customers' sensitive information from Discovery and the Discovery appointees to the Board shall recuse themselves from any discussion of such information at any Board meetings, if such request is made by a third party customer of FoundryCo.
Section 4.01
(ii) For such period as the Auditors shall also be the auditors of the consolidated financial statements of Discovery, Oyster and its representatives (including separate independent accountants) shall have the right to perform (at FoundryCo's expense, upon reasonable request by Oyster, and during normal business hours), Oyster's own (A) annual audit of FoundryCo and any of its consolidated Subsidiaries' books and records, accounting policies, internal controls processes, and other information relevant to the FoundryCo financial statements, including the documents referred to in Sections 4.01(b)-(h), and (B) quarterly review of the Auditors' workpapers, which shall be provided subject to applicable auditing and professional standards (it being understood that FoundryCo shall provide its consent for the Auditors to reasonably cooperate with respect to such review). Oyster may request the Auditors to, and the Auditors reasonably shall, provide all such requested information either verbally or in writing, at Oyster's option, and make themselves available during normal business hours to address questions related to the Auditors' workpapers, subject to applicable auditing and professional standards. In addition, Oyster shall have the right to audit or review any transaction involving FoundryCo and any of its consolidated Subsidiaries and to review policies and position papers in connection with such transaction, and to review original documents supporting such transaction (including purchase orders, invoices and signed agreements), in each case as reasonably deemed necessary and appropriate by Oyster or its representatives in order to perform such audit or review. In connection with such audit or review, FoundryCo agrees that it will reasonably cooperate and cause its Subsidiaries to reasonably cooperate with Oyster and its representatives to provide all such requested information either verbally or in writing, at Oyster's option, and to make available during normal business hours FoundryCo's and its Subsidiaries' management and employees, in each case as reasonably deemed necessary and appropriate by Oyster or its representatives in order to perform such audit or review.
(iii) FoundryCo shall make its management and employees and its business records and other documents (including the business records and documents of its management and employees) available to
 
each of Discovery and Oyster promptly upon request in connection with any litigation or investigation in which either Discovery or Oyster is involved, including making those individuals available for interviews, depositions, written declarations or testimony. Each and every FoundryCo employee that, prior to Closing, was subject to any Discovery or Oyster document preservation notice shall continue to remain subject to such notice. For each and every FoundryCo document that, prior to Closing, was subject to any Discovery or Oyster document preservation notice, FoundryCo shall continue to retain and preserve the affected records until the expiration of such notice. Discovery or Oyster, as the case may be, shall notify FoundryCo promptly of the termination of any such notice.
(j) Discovery's rights under , and shall terminate upon the later of (i) the termination of the Wafer Supply Agreement and (ii) upon such time that Discovery owns less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares. Oyster's rights under , and shall terminate upon such time that Oyster owns less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares.
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)(i)
(i)(ii)
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)(i)
(i)(ii)
SECTION 5.01
Discovery Change of Control Transaction
In the event of a Discovery Change of Control Transaction without Oyster's prior written consent,
(a) Discovery shall promptly notify Oyster in writing thereof, setting forth the date and circumstances of the Discovery Change of Control Transaction and the identity of the Third Party that has acquired control of Discovery;
(b) all transfer restrictions set forth herein shall cease to be applicable with respect to all Securities held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees; , that the restrictions on transfer set forth in shall remain applicable;
provided, however
Section 3.02(b)(ii)
(c) if the Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs prior to the IPO, Oyster shall have the right (x) to require FoundryCo to consummate the IPO and (y) to register the number of Securities held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees in connection with the IPO. Upon such request, each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of such matters as are necessary for approval of the shareholders of FoundryCo to effect the IPO, and FoundryCo shall be obligated to file and have declared effective a Registration Statement under the Securities Act (the "") as promptly as practicable following receipt of notice from Oyster of its intention to exercise its IPO demand (the "") pursuant to this . In the event of an IPO pursuant to this , at Oyster's election, any Securities to be included on behalf of Oyster and its Permitted Transferees in the IPO shall be given first priority, including for the avoidance of doubt, priority over any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo, Discovery and its Permitted Transferees, other Shareholders and any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries;
Registration Statement
IPO Demand Request
Section 5.01(c)
Section 5.01(c)
(d)(A) Oyster shall have the right to put, in accordance with , any or all of the Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees to Discovery in exchange for cash, if the announcement of a Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs during the 24-month period commencing on the date hereof; or (B) if the Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs after the Reconciliation Event, Oyster shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with , any or all Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Discovery and its Permitted Transferees;
Section 3.11
Section 3.11
(e) Until the end of 2013, as long as Oyster continues to own Securities, Oyster shall have the right to require Discovery or the counterparty to the Discovery Change of Control Transaction, at Oyster's election, to
 
assume such portion of Oyster's funding commitment under the Funding Agreement based on the percentage of Fully Diluted Shares held by Discovery on each "Funding Date" thereunder; , that any such counterparty shall guarantee such commitment if it does not directly assume it; and
provided, however
(f) as long as Oyster continues to own Securities, Oyster shall have the right to require the counterparty to the Discovery Change of Control Transaction to guarantee all of Discovery's obligations under the Transaction Documents, including Discovery's MPU exclusivity commitments and Discovery's commitments to purchase minimum GPU volumes under the Wafer Supply Agreement.
SECTION 5.02
New Investors to Execute Agreement Regarding Restrictions
FoundryCo shall not, and the Board shall not adopt any resolution to, at any time prior to the IPO, issue any Securities, or resell any Securities held in its treasury, or issue or resell any security convertible or exchangeable into Securities, unless, prior to the consummation of any such issuance or Sale of Securities, each Person to whom such security is proposed to be issued or sold executes and delivers an agreement, in a form reasonably acceptable to Oyster and Discovery, to FoundryCo and each Shareholder, whereby such Person confirms that, with respect to the Securities that are the subject of such Sale of Securities, it shall be deemed to be a "Shareholder" for the purposes of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by all such provisions and any other provisions reasonably required by Oyster and Discovery.
SECTION 5.03
Further Assurances
Unless otherwise specified herein, each of the Parties hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 5.04
Confidential Information
(a) Each Shareholder (a "") (i) shall, and shall cause its officers, directors, employees, attorneys, accountants, auditors and agents, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information (as defined herein) (collectively "") and its Affiliates and their Representatives, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information, to maintain in strictest confidence any and all confidential information relating to FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is proprietary to FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries as applicable, or otherwise not available to the general public, including, but not limited to, information about properties, employees, finances, businesses and operations of FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries and all notes, analyses, compilations, studies, forecasts, interpretations or other documents prepared by a receiving Shareholder or its Representatives which contain, reflect or are based upon, in whole or in part, the information furnished to or acquired by such Shareholder ("") and (ii) shall not disclose, and shall cause its Representatives, any members of the Board appointed by such Shareholder and their Representatives not to disclose, Confidential Information to any Person other than to the other Shareholders, FoundryCo and their respective Subsidiaries (including the agents, employees and attorneys thereof and the members of the Board appointed by such other Shareholders), except only to the extent such disclosure is required by applicable Law, SEC rules and regulations or legal process (including pursuant to any listing agreement with, or the rules or regulations of, any national securities exchange on which any securities of such Shareholder (or any Affiliate thereof) are listed or traded) in which event the Shareholder making such disclosure or whose Affiliates or Representatives are making such disclosure shall so notify the other Shareholders as promptly as practicable (and, if possible, prior to making such disclosure) and shall seek confidential treatment of such information if reasonably requested.
Restricted Party
Representatives
Confidential Information
 
(b) Notwithstanding :
Section 5.04(a)
(i) Any Restricted Party or any Representative thereof may disclose any Confidential Information for bona fide business purposes on a strict "need to know" basis to its Affiliates, its board of directors (or equivalent governing body), its Representatives and its lenders, , , that in each such case each such Person is bound by a legal duty to or otherwise agrees to keep such Confidential Information confidential in the manner set forth in this .
provided
however
Section 5.04
(ii) The provisions of shall not apply to, and Confidential Information shall not include:
Section 5.04(a)
(A) any information that is or has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by any Restricted Party or any Affiliate or Representative thereof in breach of any of the provisions of this ;
Section 5.04
(B) any information that has been independently developed by such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof) without violating any of the provisions of this Agreement or any other similar contract to which such Restricted Party, or any Affiliate thereof or their respective Representatives, is bound;
(C) any information made available to such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof), on a non-confidential basis by any third party who is not prohibited from disclosing such information to such Shareholder by a legal, contractual or fiduciary obligation to any other Shareholder or any of its Representatives; or
(D) any information already possessed by such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof) and not obtained pursuant or subject to a confidentiality agreement.
(c) Except as otherwise provided for in this , Confidential Information received hereunder shall be used by each Shareholder and its Affiliates solely for use in connection with such Shareholder's investment in FoundryCo and with respect to FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries.
Section 5.04
(d) The obligations of each Shareholder under this shall survive for as long as such Party remains a Shareholder, respectively, and for two years after such Shareholder ceases to be a Shareholder, notwithstanding such Shareholder's Sale of Securities, and/or any Person ceasing to be an Affiliate of such Shareholder.
Section 5.04
SECTION 5.05
Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Indemnification Agreements
FoundryCo shall purchase and maintain directors and officers insurance in an amount equal to not less than $25 million prior to the IPO and $50 million immediately following the IPO, and the members of the Board and of any similar governing bodies of any Subsidiaries of FoundryCo appointed or designated by the Shareholders shall each be named as covered insureds thereunder. FoundryCo shall maintain the insurance contemplated hereby in effect from the date hereof until six (6) years from the last date upon which any member of the Board nominated by any of the Shareholders held office on the Board. In addition, FoundryCo shall enter into indemnification agreements with each member of the Board, in the form of or in such other form as is approved by the Board. In the event FoundryCo or any of its successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers all or substantially all of the properties and assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person, then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of FoundryCo shall assume the obligations set forth in this .
Exhibit B
Section 5.05
SECTION 5.06
Export Controls
(a) FoundryCo shall comply with all applicable export laws, registrations, international treaties or orders in effect on the date of the Agreement and as may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, all
 
such laws, registrations and treaties applicable to the export of goods and services from one country to another. Without limiting the foregoing, FoundryCo shall not export or transfer any product, exchange, supply, disclose or provide access to any technical data, or otherwise provide any service contrary to the applicable laws and regulations of the United States, or to any country, entity or other party which is ineligible to receive such items under U.S. laws and regulations, including regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce (the Export Administration Regulations at 15 C.F.R. Pts. 730 to 774), U.S. Department of State (the International Traffic in Arms Regulations at 22 C.F.R. Pts. 120-130), or the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the trade sanctions regulations at 31 C.F.R. Pts. 500 to 598).
(b) FoundryCo shall adopt a written policy for compliance with applicable U.S. export control and foreign trade control laws in the form of .
Exhibit C
SECTION 5.07
Rights to Purchase New Shares
(a) The provisions of this Section 5.07 shall terminate upon the IPO.
(b) At any time, in the event that FoundryCo proposes to issue new Shares to a Person, each of Discovery and Oyster shall have the right to purchase, in lieu of any Person to whom FoundryCo proposed to issue such new Shares, in accordance with paragraph (c) below, a number of new Shares equal to the product of (i) the total number of new Shares which FoundryCo proposes to issue at such time and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the total number of Fully Diluted Shares which such Shareholder owns at such time and the denominator of which shall be the total number of Fully Diluted Shares then Outstanding at the purchase price set forth in the Notice of Issuance; , that, prior to the Reconciliation Event, to the extent the issuance of any such Shares to Oyster or its designee(s) would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, FoundryCo shall instead issue to Oyster or its designee(s) Additional Convertible Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for such Shares that would have been issued to Oyster or its designees but for this proviso. The rights given by FoundryCo under this shall terminate if unexercised within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Notice of Issuance referred to in paragraph (c) below.
provided, however
Section 5.07
(c) In the event that FoundryCo proposes to undertake an issuance of new Shares to a Person, FoundryCo shall give written notice (a "") of its intention to each of Discovery and Oyster, describing all material terms of the new Shares and the purchase price. Each of Discovery and Oyster shall have thirty (30) days from the Notice of Issuance to agree to purchase all or a portion of its pro rata share of such new Shares (as determined pursuant to paragraph (b) above) for the same consideration.
Notice of Issuance
(d) If either or both of Discovery and Oyster elect to purchase any new Shares to be issued by FoundryCo, each such Shareholder electing to purchase the new Shares to be issued by FoundryCo shall select a date not later than twenty (20) days (or longer if required by applicable Law) after the expiration of the thirty (30)-day notice period referenced in paragraph (c) for the issue of the new Shares. Any new Shares not elected to be purchased by Discovery or Oyster may be sold by FoundryCo to the Person to which FoundryCo intended to sell such new Shares on terms and conditions no less favorable to FoundryCo than those offered to Discovery and Oyster.
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the right to purchase new Shares pursuant to this Section 5.07 shall not apply to (i) the issuance of any equity-based awards (and the underlying Shares) under any Incentive Plan, (ii) the issuance of any Shares pursuant to the conversion or exchange of any outstanding Securities of FoundryCo, or (iii) the issuance of any Shares pursuant to the terms of the Funding Agreement.
SECTION 5.08
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
Discovery may not amend, supplement, modify, terminate or extend the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement (as it exists at Closing) in any way adverse to the current rights of FoundryCo, without the prior written consent of FoundryCo.
 
SECTION 5.09
Fab Build-Outs
The Parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts with respect to the commitments relating to fab build-outs set forth on .
Exhibit D
SECTION 6.01
Deadlock Resolution Efforts
(a) All matters within the scope of the Funding Agreement requiring Board or Shareholder action shall be resolved in accordance with the deadlock provisions set forth therein.
(b) With respect to all other matters requiring Board action hereunder, if a matter properly submitted to the Board fails to be resolved by the Board, then during the twenty-one (21) day period following such deadlock, the Board shall seek in good faith to hold at least three (3) additional meetings in an attempt to resolve such deadlock. The additional meetings shall be held at the time and place (including by telephonic conference) agreed to by the members of the Board. If after such twenty-one (21) day period such deadlock shall not have been resolved, then the Board shall submit the specific items that are the subject of such deadlock to Discovery and Oyster, each acting through their chief executive officers, respectively, for resolution. A deadlock event shall be deemed to have lapsed if not resolved within thirty (30) days of referral to Discovery and Oyster and FoundryCo shall continue to operate in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in the manner which existed prior to the deadlock event occurring; , , that the Shareholders agree that if:
provided
however
(i) any Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) owns at least 75% of the Fully Diluted Shares, then such Shareholder shall be entitled to resolve the deadlock upon such lapse with respect to any action requiring a Majority Vote prior to the Reconciliation Event and with respect to each of the following:
(A) the amendment or restatement of its constituent documents, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such amendment or restatement would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(B) following the termination of the Restricted Period, any transaction resulting in a change of control of FoundryCo or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(C) the entering into of any acquisition, joint venture, divestiture, transfer, sale, assignment, lease, license or disposal of any property or asset, real, personal or mixed (including leasehold interests and intangible assets), which have a value in excess of $5 million singly or $10 million in the aggregate; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders and does not materially adversely affect FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
provided
however
(D) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto; that such approval, amendment, modification or revision does not materially adversely affect FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
provided
(E) the authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Shares or other equity interest (or option, warrant, conversion or similar right with respect to any equity interest) in or of FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or any Incentive Plan, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or
 
redemption would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(F) the declaration, making or payment of any dividend, distribution or transfer (whether in cash, securities or other property) to shareholders, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such declaration, making or payment would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(G) the entering into or the amendment of (i) any of the Transaction Documents, (ii) any Incentive Plan or (iii) any agreement, contract or arrangement by FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to pay or is entitled to receive payments in excess of $5 million over the term of such contract;
(H)(i) the sale, license, sublicense, assignment, transfer, termination or other disposition of any Intellectual Property right owned by or licensed to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any amendment of any license from or to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries of any Intellectual Property, or (iii) any covenants or agreements not to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of any Intellectual Property, other than any of the foregoing in the ordinary course of the business of FoundryCo or, with respect to any of the foregoing involving a Subsidiary of FoundryCo, the business of such Subsidiary;
(I) the prosecution, commencement or settlement of any litigation or administrative action for an amount in excess of $2 million in any such prosecution, commencement or settlement or series of related prosecutions, commencements or settlements or waiving or relinquishing any material rights or claims;
(J) the making of any loan, investment or expenditure (or series of related expenditures) not reflected in the Annual Business Plan involving more than $2 million singly or $5 million in the aggregate;
(K) the incurrence of any indebtedness or subjecting any of its properties or assets to any lien, claim or encumbrance or the giving of any material guarantee or indemnity, in each case to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, which would result in an increase of 5% or more of the total indebtedness contemplated in the Annual Business Plan;
(L) the consummation of any Public Offering of securities;
(M) the appointment or termination of FoundryCo's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer;
(N) the entering into any transaction, agreement or arrangement between FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any Officer, Director, Affiliate or Shareholder, on the other hand, (other than the transactions provided for in or contemplated by the Transaction Documents) unless the total consideration expected to be paid or received by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as whole as a result of such transaction or proposed change or waiver shall not exceed $2 million; and
(O) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (A) - (N);
(ii) any Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) owns at least 90% of the Fully Diluted Shares, then such Shareholder shall be entitled to resolve the deadlock upon such lapse with respect to any action requiring a Majority Vote prior to the Reconciliation Event and with respect to each of the following:
(A) each of the items listed in other than 6.01(b)(i)(D);
Section 6.01(b)(i)
(B) implementing material changes in the purpose or scope of FoundryCo's activities or engaging in any material activity unrelated to FoundryCo's business;
(C) approval of any material amendment, modification or revision to the initial Five-Year Capital Plan;
 
(D) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto; and
(E) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (A) - (D).
SECTION 7.01
Dissolution.
(a) The Shareholders shall pass a special resolution approving the dissolution of FoundryCo upon the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) by virtue of a written agreement to that effect, signed by Discovery and Oyster;
(ii) the occurrence of any material event that makes it unlawful or illegal to carry on FoundryCo's business, which event is not able to be cured after written notice has been given to the Shareholders specifying the details of such event; or
(iii) at the election by the other Shareholder (the ""), (A) if either Discovery or Oyster (the ""):
Non-Affected Shareholder
Affected Shareholder
(1) commences a voluntary case under any Bankruptcy Law,
(2) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case under any Bankruptcy Law,
(3) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
(4) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
(5) generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due, or
(B) if a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree, and such order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for sixty (60) days, under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(1) is for relief against the Affected Shareholder in an involuntary case,
(2) appoints a Custodian of the Affected Shareholder or for all or substantially all of its property, or
(3) orders the liquidation of the Affected Shareholder.
For the purposes of this , the term "" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors. The term "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidation or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.01
Bankruptcy Law
Custodian
(b) Upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in  and , the Non-Affected Shareholder may elect in lieu of triggering the dissolution of FoundryCo pursuant to any or all of the following actions:
Section 7.01(a)(iii) (A)
(B)
Section 7.01(a)(iii)
(i) upon notice to FoundryCo by the Non-Affected Shareholder, the rights of the Directors designated by the Affected Shareholder (each an "") under shall terminate and all actions set forth under shall require the approval of each Director designated by the Non-Affected Shareholder (each a "") with each Affected Director recusing themselves from such vote and upon such approval, the matter shall be deemed approved by the Board; , , that the rights of each Affected Director under shall survive if, prior to
Affected Director
Section 2.08(b)
Section 2.08(b)
Non-Affected Director
provided
however
Section 2.08(b)(i)
 
the Reconciliation Event, the action to be approved by the Board would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; and/or
(ii) the Non-Affected Shareholder shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with , any or all of the Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by the Affected Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees.
Section 3.11
(c) Upon the dissolution of FoundryCo, the Person or Persons approved by the Shareholders holding a majority of the Fully Diluted Shares to carry out the winding-up of FoundryCo shall immediately commence to wind up FoundryCo's affairs in accordance with applicable Law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association; , that a reasonable time shall be allowed for the orderly liquidation of the assets of FoundryCo and the satisfaction of liabilities to creditors so as to enable the Shareholders to minimize the normal losses attendant upon a liquidation.
provided, however
SECTION 8.01
Termination
This Agreement shall terminate only:
(a) upon dissolution of FoundryCo in accordance with ;
Article VII
(b) by virtue of a written agreement to that effect, signed by all Parties hereto then possessing any rights hereunder; or
(c) with respect to any Shareholder (subject to ), at such time as such Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) no longer owns or holds any Securities.
Section 5.04(d)
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , all rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder (except for this paragraph, (Confidential Information), (Notices), (Governing Law; Arbitration), (Expenses) and (Definitions) shall terminate. Nothing contained in this shall relieve any Party for any breach of any agreement or covenant contained in this Agreement that occurred prior to the date of termination of this Agreement.
Section 8.01
Section 5.04
Section 8.02
Section 8.10
Section 8.13
Appendix A
Section 8.01
SECTION 8.02
Notices
All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be given or made in accordance with Section 14.01 of the Master Transaction Agreement.
SECTION 8.03
Public Announcements
No Party hereto shall make, or cause to be made, any press release or public announcement or otherwise communicate with any news media in respect of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without the prior consent of the other Parties unless otherwise required by Law or applicable stock exchange regulation, and the Parties hereto shall cooperate as to the timing and contents of any such press release, public announcement or communication.
 
SECTION 8.04
Severability
If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
SECTION 8.05
Entire Agreement
This Agreement and the other Transaction Documents constitute the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, between Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
SECTION 8.06
Assignment
This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of each Party hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such Party) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void.
SECTION 8.07
Amendment
This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each Party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with .
Section 8.08
SECTION 8.08
Waiver
Either Discovery or Oyster may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other Party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of the other Party contained herein or in any document delivered by the other Party pursuant hereto, or (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of the other Party or conditions to such Party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the Party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of either Party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
SECTION 8.09
Third Party Beneficiaries
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of Discovery, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 8.10
Governing Law; Arbitration
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to principles of the conflict of laws.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one Party to the other(s), to a senior executive from each Party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of the London Court of International Arbitration (the "") then in effect, as amended by this Section 8.10, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 8.10. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three (3). Each Party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two (2) arbitrators nominated by the Parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal (as such terms are defined in the LCIA Rules). If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court (as such term is defined in the LCIA Rules) shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a Party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and, subject to this Section 8.10(c) and to Section 8.10(d), may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the Parties. In the event any Party subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a Party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the Parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the Parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the Parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the Parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the Parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 8.10; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 8.10).
LCIA Rules
Interim Relief Proceeding
 
(d) Oyster hereby irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law whatever defense it may have of sovereign immunity against suit or enforcement, for itself and its property (presently owned or subsequently acquired, and whether related to this Agreement or not), in: (i) any arbitration proceedings commenced and held in London, England in accordance with Section 8.10(c); (ii) any Interim Relief Proceeding commenced and held in a court of competent jurisdiction in London, England, in accordance with Section 8.10(c); (iii) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England to confirm an award rendered by the arbitrators in accordance with this Section 8.10; and (iv) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce an award, and Oyster agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such action or proceeding.
(e) The Parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 8.02. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any Party's behalf, such Party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a Party requiring another Party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other Party fails to do so, the Party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other Party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
SECTION 8.11
Currency
Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to currency, monetary values and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars and all payments hereunder shall be made in United States dollars.
SECTION 8.12
Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
SECTION 8.13
Expenses
Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, all costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and in closing and carrying out the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Party incurring such cost or expense.
SECTION 8.14
No Presumption Against Drafting Party
Each Party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each of the Parties hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting Party has no application and is expressly waived.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized signatories thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
APPENDIX A
"" means the sum of (i) the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share, plus (ii) the amount of value accreted on the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share at a rate of 12% per year, compounded semiannually.
Accreted Value
"" means any additional convertible promissory notes of FoundryCo to be issued after the Closing Date pursuant to the Funding Agreement and the Master Transaction Agreement, including paid-in-kind interest on such notes.
Additional Convertible Notes
"" means the additional Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon the conversion of the Class B Preferred Shares, if the Fair Market Value of the Class B Ordinary Shares to be received upon such conversion would be less than the Accreted Value of such Class B Preferred Shares.
Additional Shares
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person; ,that with respect to Oyster and Pearl, Affiliate shall mean any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Oyster or Pearl, respectively, and not any direct or indirect parent or sister entity of either Oyster or Pearl, as the case may be, unless such parent or sister entity is acting as a member of a "group" (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with Oyster or Pearl, respectively, for the purposes of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of FoundryCo.
Affiliate
provided
however,
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Annual Business Plan
"" means only the Liabilities set forth on Exhibit E to the Master Transaction Agreement.
Assumed Liabilities
"" means the Board of Directors of FoundryCo, as specified in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Board
"" means any day that is not a Friday, a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in The City of New York or in Abu Dhabi.
Business Day
"" means the Class A ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class B ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" means shares of Class A preferred shares of FoundryCo with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Preferred Shares
"" means shares of Class B preferred shares of FoundryCo with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Preferred Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing
"" means the date of the Closing, as further described in of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing Date
Section 2.03
 
"" (including the terms "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly or as trustee, personal representative or executor, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee, personal representative or executor, by contract, credit arrangement or otherwise.
control
controlled by
under common control with
"" means the Initial Convertible Notes and the Additional Convertible Notes.
Convertible Notes
"" means a Person who is a member of the Board.
Director
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Discovery Change of Control Transaction
"" means the right of Discovery to have unlimited volumes of products, including microprocessors, made for Discovery and its Subsidiaries by FoundryCo, regardless of whether FoundryCo is a "Subsidiary" or "Affiliate" of Discovery for purposes of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, such rights shall not require (i) the payment of any royalties, license fees or other consideration by FoundryCo or the pass through of such royalties, license fees or other consideration by Discovery to FoundryCo, (ii) the license to (or covenants for the benefit of) Intel or its Affiliates in respect of any patents or patent applications of FoundryCo (other than patents already licensed or required to be licensed to Intel pursuant to agreements between Intel and Discovery as of the Closing), or (iii) other restrictions that would prevent FoundryCo from (or limit FoundryCo in) manufacturing or supplying Discovery's products for Discovery.
Discovery-specific Have Made Rights
"" means any security interest, pledge, hypothecation, mortgage, lien (including environmental and tax liens), violation, charge, lease, license, encumbrance, servient easement, adverse claim, reversion, reverter, preferential arrangement, restrictive covenant, condition or restriction of any kind, including any restriction on the use, voting, transfer, receipt of income or other exercise of any attributes of ownership.
Encumbrance
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means, as of any date of determination (i) with respect to the Convertible Notes, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Convertible Notes plus any accrued interest; (ii) with respect to securities traded on any internationally recognized securities exchange, the value shall be deemed to be the average of the closing price of the securities on such exchange over the twenty (20)-day period ending two (2) days prior to such date of determination; (iii) with respect to securities actively traded over-the-counter, the value shall be deemed to be the average of the closing bid or sale price (whichever is applicable) over the twenty (20)-day period ending two (2) days prior to such date of determination; and (iv) with respect to securities for which there is no active public market, and with respect to property or other assets, the fair market value thereof, as determined in accordance with . In making such determination, the impact of all terms of the securities shall be taken into account, including conversion premiums, dividends, attached warrants, exercise price and the like, if there is no active public market, and whether or not the Reconciliation Event shall have occurred. For purposes of , the date of determination hereunder shall be the date of the public announcement of the Discovery Change of Control Transaction.
Fair Market Value
Section 3.11
Section 5.01
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Five-Year Capital Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Group
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Assets
 
"" means the aggregate of (i) the number of Class B Ordinary Shares issued and Outstanding and (ii) the number of Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon (x) the exercise of any then exercisable outstanding options, warrants or similar instruments (other than such instruments held by FoundryCo) and (y) the exercise of any conversion or exchange rights with respect to any outstanding securities, including (A) any Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares, assuming each Class A Preferred Share and each Class B Preferred Share converts into 100 Class B Ordinary Shares (but excluding any Additional Shares issuable with respect to the Class B Preferred Shares), as adjusted for any share splits, share dividends, share combinations and the like, and (B) any Convertible Notes, assuming the Convertible Notes convert into Preferred Shares and then into Class B Ordinary Shares in accordance with the terms thereof (excluding any accrued and unpaid interest).
Fully Diluted Shares
"" means the Funding Agreement dated as of the date hereof among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo relating to future capital contributions to FoundryCo, as may be amended from time to time.
Funding Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Funding Date
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles and practices in effect from time to time applied consistently throughout the periods involved.
GAAP
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local, or similar government, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body.
Governmental Authority
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
HSR Act
"" means International Financial Reporting Standards as in effect from time to time.
IFRS
"" means an incentive compensation plan for FoundryCo.
Incentive Plan
"" means (i) the eighty-three million nine hundred twenty-nine thousand dollars ($83,929,000) principal amount class A convertible promissory note issued by FoundryCo to Oyster at the Closing, including any paid-in-kind interest on such note and (ii) the three hundred thirty-five million seven hundred sixteen thousand dollars ($335,716,000) principal amount class B convertible promissory note issued by FoundryCo to Oyster at the Closing, including any paid-in-kind interest on such note.
Initial Convertible Notes
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Intellectual Property
"" means that certain Patent Cross License Agreement between Discovery and Intel, dated January 1, 2001, as may be amended from time to time.
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
"" means the initial Public Offering of FoundryCo.
IPO
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local or similar statute, law, ordinance, decree, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement or rule of law (including common law).
Law
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Luther Forest Site
"" means the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the members of the Board.
Majority Vote
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Malta Rocket Fuel Area
"" means the Master Transaction Agreement by and among Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto dated as of October 6, 2008, as may be amended from time to time.
Master Transaction Agreement
 
"" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of FoundryCo, filed with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
"" means the employees designated as officers by the Board including but not limited to a Chief Executive Officer and a Chief Financial Officer.
Officers
"" means the Class A Ordinary Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares
"" means, as of any date of determination, all Shares that have been issued on or prior to such date, other than Shares held, repurchased or otherwise reacquired by FoundryCo on or prior to such date.
Outstanding
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Pearl
"" means with respect to a Shareholder or FoundryCo, any Affiliate of such Shareholder or FoundryCo, as the case may be; ,that with respect to Oyster or FoundryCo, Permitted Transferee shall also mean any transferee Person directly or indirectly controlled by the Abu Dhabi government that is directed to be a transferee by any Governmental Authority.
Permitted Transferee
provided
however,
"" means an individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" means the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares.
Preferred Shares
"" means any action, suit, claim, charge, hearing, arbitration, audit, or proceeding (public or private).
Proceeding
"" means an underwritten public offering of equity securities pursuant to an effective Registration Statement under the Securities Act or similar non-U.S. applicable Laws.
Public Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Qualified Processes
"" means the earlier of (i) such time when Discovery has secured for FoundryCo Discovery-specific Have Made Rights under the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, or (ii) such time when the Board determines that FoundryCo no longer needs to be a "subsidiary" of Discovery as defined in Section 1.22 of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or any other Transaction Document, prior to the Reconciliation Event, FoundryCo shall in no event be under any obligation (contractually or otherwise) to directly or indirectly distribute more than seventy percent (70%) of its profits to any Person.
Reconciliation Event
"" means any issuance, sale, assignment, transfer, distribution (whether by an entity to its owners or otherwise) or other disposition of Securities or of a participation therein, whether voluntarily or by operation of applicable Law.
Sale of Securities
"" means the Shares and the Convertible Notes.
Securities
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" means this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time.
Shareholders' Agreement
 
"" means each Person (other than FoundryCo) that shall be a party to the Shareholders' Agreement as a holder of Securities, whether in connection with the execution and delivery thereof as of the Closing Date or otherwise, so long as such Person shall beneficially own, hold of record or be a registered holder of any Securities.
Shareholder
"" means the Ordinary Shares, the Preferred Shares and any other shares of the share capital of FoundryCo issued on or after the date of the Shareholders' Agreement.
Shares
"" or "", with respect to any Person, means any and all corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures, associations and other entities controlled by such Person, directly or indirectly or in which such Person directly or indirectly has at least 50% of the voting power to elect the board of directors or other governing body of such entity; , that solely for purposes of this Agreement neither FoundryCo nor any member of the FoundryCo Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Discovery following the Closing. The foregoing proviso shall be applicable only to this Agreement and shall not be applicable to, and shall have no relevance with respect to, any other agreement, arrangement, understanding, contract, license or mortgage to which any of Oyster, Discovery or FoundryCo, or any of their respective Affiliates, is or may become a party or the interpretation thereof, unless such proviso is included therein.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
provided, however
"" means, with respect to any Shareholder, any Person other than (i) any Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder or (ii) the Other Shareholder, and, with respect to FoundryCo, any Person other than its Subsidiaries or a Shareholder or the Permitted Transferees of a Shareholder.
Third Party
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Transition Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Wafer Starts
"" means the Wafer Supply Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between Discovery and FoundryCo relating to the manufacture and sale of wafers to Discovery by FoundryCo following the Closing, as may be amended from time to time.
Wafer Supply Agreement
 
. The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Sections set forth below:
Table of Additional Definitions
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This FUNDING AGREEMENT (this "" and as referred to herein, this ""), dated as of [            ] [        ], 200[    ], is entered into by and among Discovery, a Delaware corporation (""), Oyster, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly-owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi ("") (each of Discovery and Oyster being a "" and together the "") and FoundryCo, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo are sometimes referred to herein as the "," and each individually as a "."
Funding Agreement
Agreement
Discovery
Oyster
Shareholder
Shareholders
FoundryCo
Parties
Party
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto are parties to the Master Transaction Agreement that provides, among other things, for the formation of FoundryCo under the laws of the Cayman Islands to act as the holding company for a joint venture between Discovery and Oyster; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Parties wish to provide for the funding of FoundryCo from the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the date this Agreement is terminated.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings referred to or ascribed to such terms in .
Certain Defined Terms.
Appendix A
SECTION 1.02. In this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise provided or that the context otherwise requires:
Interpretation and Rules of Construction.
(a) when a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Appendix, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or an Appendix to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;
(b) the table of contents and headings for this Agreement are for reference purposes only and do not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(c) whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(d) the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
(e) any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty contained in this Agreement as to the matters covered thereby;
(f) all terms defined in this Agreement have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein;
(g) the definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms;
(h) whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms;
(i) any Law defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such Law or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws and any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder;
(j) any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days;
(k) references to a Person are also to its successors and permitted assigns; and
(l) the use of "or" is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise.
SECTION 2.01.
Approval of Annual Business Plan.
(a) On or prior to mid-November of each year (which date shall be prior to the end of the seventh fiscal week of the fourth fiscal quarter of such year of FoundryCo), or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day, the Management Team shall prepare and present to the Board for its approval a proposed Annual Business Plan for the subsequent Fiscal Year. The Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending on December 26, 2009 (the "") is attached hereto as . Each proposed Annual Business Plan shall address, among other things, each of the line items set forth in the First Annual Business Plan.
First Annual Business Plan
Appendix B
(b) In connection with the preparation of each proposed Annual Business Plan, the Management Team shall retain such advisors and take such actions as will enable it to estimate whether and to what extent third-party debt financing ("") would then be available to FoundryCo, with the aim that such Debt Financing would be at least sufficient to meet the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan. Each proposed Annual Business Plan shall include either a proposed commitment letter for such Debt Financing or a summary of indicative terms from at least two financial institutions (or, if in the good faith determination of the Management Team, no reputable and established financial institutions would provide such Debt Financing on commercially reasonable terms, a statement to such effect). Each of Discovery and Oyster shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to assist FoundryCo in obtaining any Debt Financing, and either Shareholder shall have the option, but not the obligation, to provide guarantees or other similar means of financial support in connection with any Debt Financing.
Debt Financing
(c) Such proposed Annual Business Plan shall specifically include an estimate, by fiscal quarter, of sources and uses of funds for FoundryCo for such subsequent Fiscal Year, at all times after giving effect to the cash reserve requirement in . After due consideration of such proposed Annual Business Plan, the Board shall vote on whether to approve (with such changes as the Board shall determine) such proposed Annual Business Plan in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement. If the Board approves such proposed Annual Business Plan in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement, such proposed Annual Business Plan shall immediately become effective as the Annual Business Plan for the subsequent Fiscal Year.
Section 2.02
(d) If the Board has not approved such proposed Annual Business Plan on or prior to the earlier of (i) the first Business Day after November 29 and (ii) the last day of the ninth (9
th
) fiscal week of the fourth fiscal quarter
 
of Foundry Co, then within three (3) Business Days thereafter FoundryCo shall deliver a notice that shall detail the specific items that are the subject of such non-approval to the chief executive officer of each Shareholder. During the period following receipt of such notice through December 23 of that Fiscal Year, the chief executive officers, acting on behalf of their respective Shareholder, shall seek in good faith and shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to hold at least three (3) additional meetings with the goal of approving the proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as the chief executive officers shall determine). If (i) the Board approves such proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as the chief executive officers, acting on behalf of their respective Shareholder, shall determine) in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement, or (ii) a Shareholder unilaterally approves such proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as such Shareholder shall determine) pursuant to the rights granted under of the Shareholders' Agreement, such proposed Annual Business Plan shall immediately become effective as the Annual Business Plan for such subsequent Fiscal Year.
Section 6.01(b)
(e) If the Shareholders, acting through their respective chief executive officers, have not approved such proposed Annual Business Plan on or prior to December 23
rd
of the Fiscal Year in which the proposed Annual Business Plan was submitted to the Board and the chief executive officers, a "" shall be deemed to have occurred and the Parties shall follow the deadlock resolution procedures set forth in .
Business Plan Deadlock
Article VIII
SECTION 2.02. . The Parties agree that at all times during the term of this Agreement, the FoundryCo Group shall maintain Cash and Cash Equivalents in an amount equal to at least $1.0 billion, , that this requirement shall no longer apply upon the earlier of (i) FoundryCo entering into a Transition Period in accordance with hereunder and (ii) the end of Phase II.
Cash Reserve
provided, however
Article VIII
SECTION 3.01.
Funding Notices.
(a) From time to time during the term of this Agreement, FoundryCo may provide a notice requesting equity funding (the "") to both Shareholders in substantially the form attached hereto as . The First Funding Notice shall be provided at least thirty (30) Business Days prior to the date of any contemplated equity funding hereunder (unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Shareholders) (each, a "").
First Funding Notice
Appendix D
Funding Date
(b) On any Funding Date, the aggregate number of Securities to be issued shall consist of twenty percent (20%) in the form of Class A Preferred Shares and eighty percent (80%) in the form of Class B Preferred Shares, , that, prior to the Reconciliation Event, to the extent the issuance of any such Securities to Oyster would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, FoundryCo shall instead issue to Oyster (i) a Class A Convertible Note in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for the Class A Preferred Shares that would have been issued to Oyster but for this proviso, and (ii) a Class B Convertible Note in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for the Class B Preferred Shares that would have been issued to Oyster but for this proviso.
provided, however
(c) Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , unless otherwise agreed by the Shareholders, the aggregate amount of equity funding to be provided by the Shareholders in any Fiscal Year pursuant to this Agreement shall be as follows:
Article VI
(i) during Phase I, such amount shall be equal to the Original Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, , that such Original Funding Level shall be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt
provided
however,
 
Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, and , that, subject to , to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, the Original Funding Level shall not be increased to make up any such difference;
provided further
Section 3.01(c)(iv)
(ii) during Phase II, such amount shall be equal to the Original Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, , that such amount may be reduced (A) to the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to , (B) to a level between the Original Funding Level and the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to and (C) to the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to . Such amount shall also be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, , that, subject to , to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, such amount shall not be increased to make up any such difference. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Minimum Funding Level applies, then (x) the projected Debt Funding Level shall be reduced to the Minimum Debt Funding Level, and (y) if the level of Debt Financing is less than any such projected Minimum Debt Funding Level, the minimum level of equity funding shall be equal to the Minimum Funding Level;
provided
however,
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.02(a)
Section 8.04(c)
provided, however
Section 3.01(c)(iv)
(iii) during Phase III, such amount shall be equal to the equity funding level set forth in the approved Annual Business Plan for such Fiscal Year, , that such amount may be reduced (A) to a level between the Phase III Alternate Funding Level and the Transition Funding Level pursuant to and (B) to the Transition Funding Level pursuant to . Such amount shall also be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, , that to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, such amount shall not be increased to make up any such difference. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Transition Funding Level applies and such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, the minimum level of equity funding shall be equal to the Transition Funding Level; and
provided, however
Section 8.03(a)
Section 8.04(c)
provided, however
(iv) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in or , if (A) any equity funding has been reduced during Phase I or Phase II as a result of Debt Financing obtained during any Fiscal Year exceeding the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year (the cumulative amount of such equity funding reduction being referred to as the "") and (B) during any subsequent Fiscal Year during Phase I or Phase II the amount of any Debt Financing is less than the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, then the amount of equity funding for such Fiscal Year or for any subsequent Fiscal Year during Phase I or Phase II may be increased up to the Rollover Amount, , that in no event shall the aggregate amount of equity funding to be provided by Oyster during Phase I and Phase II exceed the aggregate amount of equity funding for Phase I and Phase II as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Section 3.01(c)(i)
(ii)
Rollover Amount
provided, however
(d) Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , Oyster shall be obligated to purchase its Pro Rata Portion of the Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice. Discovery shall have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase its Pro Rata Portion of the Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice. Within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of a First Funding Notice, Discovery shall advise FoundryCo and Oyster, in writing, whether it elects to purchase any of the Securities offered. To the extent that Discovery elects not to purchase all of its Pro Rata Portion of any Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice, Oyster shall be obligated, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , to purchase all of such unpurchased Securities. Oyster may also elect at any time to purchase additional Securities in excess of those offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice.
Article VI
Article VI
(e) On or prior to the tenth (10
th
) Business Day prior to a Funding Date, FoundryCo shall provide a notice (the "") to each Shareholder in substantially the form attached hereto as which shall detail each Shareholder's allocable portion of the Securities offered.
Second Funding Notice
Appendix E
 
SECTION 3.02.
Purchase and Sale of Securities.
(a) Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, on each Funding Date, FoundryCo shall issue to each purchasing Shareholder and such Shareholder shall purchase, accept and acquire from FoundryCo the allocated Securities as set forth in the Second Funding Notice for such Funding Date.
(b) On each Funding Date, the purchase price per Class A Preferred Share shall be the same as the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share and shall be determined by dividing (i) the Net Tangible Assets of the FoundryCo Group (derived from the most recent Fiscal Year-end audited consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo that has been approved by the Board and calculated in accordance with the Statement of Principles set forth in attached hereto) by (ii) the Number of Outstanding Preferred Shares (as of the date of the balance sheet referred to in clause (i) above), and multiplying such quotient by 1.1.
Appendix F
(c) On each Funding Date, the aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes to be issued shall be determined in accordance with .
Section 3.01(b)
SECTION 3.03. On each Funding Date, FoundryCo shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Oyster and Discovery, if applicable, or their respective designated custodians:
Closing Deliveries by FoundryCo.
(a) if requested, physical certificates evidencing the number of Class A Preferred Shares to be purchased by such Shareholder on such Funding Date, rounded to the nearest whole share;
(b) if requested, physical certificates evidencing the number of Class B Preferred Shares, to be purchased by such Shareholder on such Funding Date, rounded to the nearest whole share;
(c) if applicable, a Class A Convertible Note to Oyster for an aggregate principal amount in accordance with ;
Section 3.01(b)
(d) if applicable, a Class B Convertible Note to Oyster for an aggregate principal amount in accordance with ;
Section 3.01(b)
(e) an updated Register of Members reflecting the issuance of the Securities on such Funding Date;
(f) a certificate, dated as of such Funding Date, executed by an authorized officer of FoundryCo certifying as to the matters set forth in , and or , as applicable; and
Article IV
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(a), 6.02(b)
6.02(c)
(g) receipt(s) for the aggregate consideration paid by such Shareholder for the Securities issued to it on such Funding Date.
SECTION 3.04. On each Funding Date, to the extent a Shareholder is purchasing Securities, such Shareholder shall deliver to FoundryCo:
Closing Deliveries by the Shareholders.
(a)(i) a wire transfer of the aggregate consideration for the Securities to be issued to such Shareholder on such Funding Date, payable in United States dollars and in immediately available funds to the bank account designated by FoundryCo in the First Funding Notice, or (ii) if the Board so agrees in advance, the aggregate consideration for such Securities payable in Cash and Cash Equivalents acceptable to the Board; and
(b) a certificate, dated as of such Funding Date, executed by an authorized officer of such Shareholder certifying as to the matters set forth in .
Article V
 
FoundryCo hereby represents and warrants as of each Funding Date to each Shareholder who is issued Securities on such Funding Date as follows:
SECTION 4.01. FoundryCo is an exempted company limited by shares, duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the Cayman Islands. FoundryCo has all corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization, Authority and Qualification of FoundryCo.
SECTION 4.02. The Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares to be issued and purchased pursuant to this Agreement on any Funding Date have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with this Agreement on such Funding Date, shall be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and will be free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and Shareholders' Agreement, and shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and Shareholders' Agreement.
Authorization of the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares.
SECTION 4.03. . In the event that any Convertible Notes are issued on any Funding Date, the Convertible Notes to be issued pursuant to this Agreement on such Funding Date have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with this Agreement on such Funding Date, shall be duly executed and delivered by FoundryCo and shall constitute valid and binding obligations of FoundryCo, enforceable against FoundryCo in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally. The Class A Preferred Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class A Convertible Notes shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement. The Class B Preferred Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class B Convertible Notes shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement.
Authorization of Convertible Notes
SECTION 4.04. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by FoundryCo, the performance by FoundryCo of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by FoundryCo of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of FoundryCo. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by FoundryCo, and this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of FoundryCo, enforceable against FoundryCo in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 4.05. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by FoundryCo, the performance by FoundryCo of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by FoundryCo of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not require any Authorizations and do not and will not require any Consents, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of such Funding Date.
Absence of Further Requirements
 
SECTION 4.06. . The execution and delivery by FoundryCo of this Agreement, the compliance by FoundryCo with all the provisions hereof, the performance by FoundryCo of all of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the constituent documents of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, any Material FoundryCo Contract or any other indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument that is material to FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to FoundryCo, any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property; (iii) result in the imposition or creation of (or the obligation to create or impose) any material Encumbrance on the assets, properties or business of FoundryCo under any agreement or instrument to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; or (iv) result in the suspension, termination or revocation of any material Consent or Authorization of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or any other impairment of the rights of the holder of any such material Consent or Authorization.
No Conflicts
Each of Oyster and Discovery, if applicable, severally and not jointly, hereby represents and warrants as of each Funding Date to FoundryCo as follows:
SECTION 5.01. Such Shareholder has been duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization.
SECTION 5.02. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Shareholder, the performance by such Shareholder of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by such Shareholder of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Shareholder and this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligations of such Shareholder, enforceable against such Shareholder in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 5.03. . To the knowledge of such Shareholder, the execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Shareholder, the performance by such Shareholder of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by such Shareholder of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not require any Authorization and do not and will not require any Consents, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of such Funding Date.
Absence of Further Requirements
SECTION 5.04. The execution and delivery by such Shareholder of this Agreement, the compliance by such Shareholder with all the provisions hereof, the performance by such Shareholder of all of its obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of the organizational documents of such Shareholder; or (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to such Shareholder.
No Conflicts.
SECTION 5.05.
Investment Representations.
(a) Such Shareholder acknowledges and understands that (i) the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act or under any state securities Laws and are being offered and sold in reliance
 
upon federal and state exemptions for transactions not involving any public offering, (ii) such exemption depends in part upon, and such Securities are being sold in reliance on, the representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement, (iii) such Shareholder may have to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Securities for an indefinite period of time because the Securities must be held indefinitely unless subsequently registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities Laws or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and (iv) a restrictive legend evidencing these restrictions shall be placed on all certificates evidencing the Securities.
(b) Such Shareholder is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act, a sophisticated investor and, by virtue of its business or financial experience, is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment in the Securities. Such Shareholder has been provided an opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from representatives of FoundryCo concerning the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the purchase of the Securities contemplated hereby.
(c) Such Shareholder is acquiring the Securities for the purpose of investment and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof that would be prohibited by Law.
SECTION 6.01. The obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities on any Funding Date as contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, on or prior to the applicable Funding Date, of each of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent To Oyster Funding on Each Funding Date.
(a) FoundryCo shall have delivered to Oyster the closing deliverables set forth in .
Deliverables.
Section 3.03
(b).
Representations and Warranties; Covenants
(i) the representations and warranties of FoundryCo set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such Funding Date; and
(ii) the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement to be complied with by FoundryCo on or before the applicable Funding Date shall have been complied with in all material respects.
(c) . No event or events shall have occurred, or be reasonably likely to occur, which, individually or in the aggregate, have, or are reasonably likely to have, (i) a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect or (ii) a Discovery Material Adverse Effect that could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect Discovery's performance of its obligations under the Wafer Supply Agreement, including a sustained material decrease in Discovery's MPU forecasts, or Discovery's MPU purchase orders under the Wafer Supply Agreement being materially below its MPU forecasts thereunder on a sustained basis.
No Material Adverse Effect
(d) . As of such Funding Date, there shall be no material breach or default by FoundryCo or Discovery under the terms or provisions of any Transaction Document.
No Material Default Under Transaction Documents
(e) . The Shareholders shall have received from counsel to FoundryCo a written legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of such Funding Date, in the form attached hereto as .
Legal Opinion
Appendix G
SECTION 6.02.
Supplemental Conditions to Oyster Funding.
(a) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase I shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the
Section 6.01
 
supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date.
Appendix H
(b) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase II shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the supplemental conditions set forth under Legal Conditions, Financial Conditions and Strategic Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date, except for any other date otherwise specified therein, , that if paragraph 3(b) under Legal Conditions on has not been satisfied or waived on or prior to such Funding Date, then Oyster's funding obligation may, at Oyster's option, be reduced to the Minimum Funding Level until such date, if any, when Oyster receives evidence to its reasonable satisfaction that the event referred to in paragraph 3(b) under Legal Conditions has occurred and , that if any of the Financial Conditions or Strategic Conditions on has not been satisfied or waived on or prior to such Funding Date, then Oyster's funding obligation may, at Oyster's option, be reduced to the Minimum Funding Level until such date, if any, when Oyster receives evidence to its reasonable satisfaction that such condition has been satisfied. For the avoidance of doubt, with respect to any Abu Dhabi-related Strategic Condition set forth on , such condition shall be deemed satisfied if FoundryCo shall have performed in all material respects all obligations in its reasonable control, regardless of whether or not such Strategic Condition or milestone shall have in fact been achieved.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
provided, however
Appendix H
provided, further
Appendix H
Appendix H
(c) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase III shall be subject to approval of the Annual Business Plan for the applicable Fiscal Year in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement and the satisfaction or waiver of the supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
SECTION 7.01. Oyster and Discovery agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause each of its designees to the Board to refrain from taking any action that would prevent, restrict or limit FoundryCo's ability to satisfy each of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in .
Agreement Regarding Conditions Precedent.
Article VI
SECTION 7.02. The Parties agree that in the event of a Force Majeure Event that has directly caused the failure to satisfy any Abu Dhabi-related Strategic Condition set forth in , then the target date for such Strategic Condition shall be automatically extended until such condition has been satisfied, at which time each Shareholder's respective obligations under shall automatically resume.
Force Majeure Event.
Appendix H
Article III
SECTION 7.03. . The Parties agree that any information relating to FoundryCo, the other Shareholder, or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is proprietary to FoundryCo, the other Shareholder or any of their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, or otherwise not available to the general public, received in connection with this Agreement shall be treated as "Confidential Information" in accordance with of the Shareholders' Agreement.
Confidentiality
Section 5.04
 
SECTION 8.01. In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock as a result of not being able to approve the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2010, Oyster shall be obligated to, and Discovery may if it elects to, continue to fund at the Original Funding Level through the end of Phase I, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and . If at the end of such Fiscal Year, the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 is approved in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement, then funding shall be at the Original Funding Level, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and . If at the end of such Fiscal Year, the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 is not so approved, then the provisions of below shall apply.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase I.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(a)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.02
SECTION 8.02.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase II.
(a) In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock with respect to any Fiscal Year of Phase II, Oyster shall continue to provide funding in an amount at least equal to the Minimum Funding Level and up to the Original Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , until either (i) approval of the Annual Business Plan, in which case Oyster's funding commitment shall revert to the Original Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , or (ii) Oyster notifies FoundryCo that it has elected to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period, in which case will become effective immediately upon such notice.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.04
(b) In the event Oyster does not elect to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to , Oyster shall, within five (5) Business Days of the end of each fiscal quarter, provide FoundryCo with notice of the amount of funding Oyster is committing to fund for the following fiscal quarter, FoundryCo shall include such amount in any First Funding Notice delivered with respect to such following fiscal quarter, and the funding procedures set forth in shall otherwise continue to apply.
Section 8.02(a)(ii)
Article III
SECTION 8.03.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase III.
(a) In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock with respect to any Fiscal Year of Phase III, Oyster shall continue to provide funding in an amount at least equal to the Transition Funding Level and up to the Phase III Alternate Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and (other than the approval of the Annual Business Plan), until either (i) approval of the Annual Business Plan, in which case Oyster's funding commitment shall revert to the level set forth in such approved Annual Business Plan, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , or (ii) Oyster notifies FoundryCo that it has elected to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period, in which case will become effective immediately upon such notice.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(c)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(c)
Section 8.04
(b) In the event Oyster does not elect to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to , Oyster shall, within five (5) Business Days of the end of each fiscal quarter, provide FoundryCo with notice of the amount of funding Oyster is committing to fund for the following fiscal quarter, FoundryCo shall include such amount in any First Funding Notice delivered with respect to such following fiscal quarter, and the funding procedures set forth in shall otherwise continue to apply.
Section 8.03(a)(ii)
Article III
SECTION 8.04. . If Oyster elects to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to or , then the Parties agree that such Transition Period shall be governed by the following:
Transition Period
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
(a) Prior to any request for equity funding from the Shareholders, the Management Team shall have first complied with the obligation regarding Debt Financing set forth in .
Section 2.01(b)
 
(b) The funding procedures set forth in shall continue to apply.
Article III
(c) Oyster shall only be obligated to provide funding through the Transition Period at the Minimum Funding Level in the case of a Transition Period during Phase II and at the Transition Funding Level in the case of a Transition Period during Phase III, in each case subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and the supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to any Funding Date.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
(d) The Shareholders shall jointly pursue, in good faith, transition options during the Transition Period, including without limitation, winding-down, selling or liquidating FoundryCo.
(e) Upon termination of the Transition Period, Oyster shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with of the Shareholders' Agreement, any or all Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Discovery and its Permitted Transferees at a price equal to their Fair Market Value.
Section 3.11
SECTION 9.01. . This Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) a written agreement to that effect, signed by all Parties hereto then possessing any rights hereunder, and (ii) the termination of the Transition Period. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this (Termination), all rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder (except for (Confidentiality), this , (Notices), (Governing Law; Arbitration), Section 9.13 (Expenses) and (Defined Terms)) shall terminate.
Termination
Section 9.01
Section 7.03
Section 9.01
Section 9.02
Section 9.10
Appendix A
SECTION 9.02. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be given or made in accordance with of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Notices
Section 14.01
SECTION 9.03. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
SECTION 9.04. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
SECTION 9.05. . This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of each Party hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such Party) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void, , , that Oyster may assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement without any consent to any Permitted Transferee.
Assignment
provided
however
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each Party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with .
Amendment
Section 9.07
 
SECTION 9.07. . Any Party to this Agreement may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of any other Party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of other Parties contained herein or in any document delivered by other Parties pursuant hereto or (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of other Parties or conditions to such Party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the Party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of any Party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
Waiver
SECTION 9.08. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of any Party, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries
SECTION 9.09. Each of the Parties hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated pursuant to this Agreement.
Further Assurances.
SECTION 9.10. .
Governing Law; Arbitration
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to principles of the conflict of laws.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one Party to the other(s), to a senior executive from each Party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of the London Court of International Arbitration (the "") then in effect, as amended by this Section 9.10, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 9.10. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three. Each Party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators nominated by the Parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal (as such terms are defined in the LCIA Rules). If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court (as such term is defined in the LCIA Rules) shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a Party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and, subject to this Section 9.10(c) and to Section 9.10(d), may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the Parties. In the event any Party
LCIA Rules
 
subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a Party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the Parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the Parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the Parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the Parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 9.10; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 9.10).
Interim Relief Proceeding
(d) Oyster hereby irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law whatever defense it may have of sovereign immunity against suit or enforcement, for itself and its property (presently owned or subsequently acquired, and whether related to this Agreement or not), in: (i) any arbitration proceedings commenced and held in London, England in accordance with Section 9.10(c); (ii) any Interim Relief Proceeding commenced and held in a court of competent jurisdiction in London, England, in accordance with Section 9.10(c); (iii) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England to confirm an award rendered by the arbitrators in accordance with this Section 9.10; and (iv) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce an award, and Oyster agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such action or proceeding.
(e) The Parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 9.02. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any Party's behalf, such Party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a Party requiring another Party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other Party fails to do so, the Party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other Party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
SECTION 9.11. . Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to currency, monetary values and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars and all payments hereunder shall be made in United States dollars.
Currency
SECTION 9.12. . Each Party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each of the Parties hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting party has no application and is expressly waived.
No Presumption Against Drafting Party
 
SECTION 9.13. . Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, all costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and in closing and carrying out the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Party incurring such costs or expenses.
Expenses
SECTION 9.14. This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
. For purposes of this Agreement:
Certain Defined Terms
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Additional Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Affiliate
"" or "" means this Funding Agreement between the Parties hereto (including the Appendixes hereto) and all amendments hereto made in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Agreement
this Agreement
"" means the then current annual business plan and budget of FoundryCo that has been approved by the Board in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement.
Annual Business Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Authorization
"" means the Board of Directors of FoundryCo, as specified in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Board
"" means any day that is not a Friday, a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in The City of New York or in Abu Dhabi.
Business Day
"" means (i) cash on hand and any credit balance in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency on any current savings or deposit account with any bank that is repayable on demand or upon and not more than ninety (90) days' notice; (ii) securities denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency that are not convertible into any other form of security and are rated or issued by any Person rated Aa2 or better by Moody's or AA or better by Standard & Poor's; (iii) securities denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency that are not convertible into any other form of security and are rated at least P-1 by Moody's or A-1 by Standard & Poor's; (iv) certificates of deposit denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency issued by, and acceptances so denominated by, banking institutions authorized under applicable legislation which at the time of making such issue or acceptances, have outstanding debt securities rated as provided in clause (iii) above, and (v) such other securities (if any) as are approved as such in writing by each of Discovery and Oyster which, in each case, have no more than twelve (12) months to final maturity.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
"" means a promissory note of FoundryCo, convertible into Class A Preferred Shares, substantially in the form attached as hereto.
Class A Convertible Note
Appendix I
"" means the Class A preferred shares of FoundryCo, with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Preferred Shares
"" means a promissory note of FoundryCo, convertible into Class B Preferred Shares, substantially in the form attached as hereto.
Class B Convertible Note
Appendix J
"" means the Class B ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class B preferred shares of FoundryCo, with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Preferred Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing
 
"" means the date of the Closing, as further described in of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing Date
Section 2.03
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Consent
"" (including the terms "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly or as trustee, personal representative or executor, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee, personal representative or executor, by contract, credit arrangement or otherwise.
control
controlled by
under common control with
"" means the Class A Convertible Notes and the Class B Convertible Notes.
Convertible Notes
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Cumulative Gross Margin
Appendix H
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Cumulative Revenue
Appendix H
"" is the estimated level of gross third-party debt funding for any Fiscal Year, based on the Original Funding Level scenario, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Debt Funding Level
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Discovery Material Adverse Effect
"" means subsidies in the amount and form approved as of the Closing Date, and as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, in the form of a loan guarantee and cash subsidies provided, or to be provided, by the Federal Republic of Germany and/or the State of Saxony relating to Fab 30, Fab 36 and Fab 38 and not any other fabs in Dresden.
Dresden Subsidies
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Encumbrance
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Fair Market Value
"" means the fiscal year of FoundryCo.
Fiscal Year
"" means the initial five-year capital plan of FoundryCo attached hereto as that includes (i) initial five-year projections of FoundryCo's estimated capital expenditures and revenues, (ii) the amounts of the Dresden Subsidies and New York Subsidies available over such five-year period, (iii) the Original Funding Level and Minimum Funding Level over such five-year period, and (iv) the projected Debt Funding Level and Minimum Debt Funding Level over such five-year period, as amended, modified or revised by the Board in accordance with the Shareholders' Agreement.
Five-Year Capital Plan
Appendix C
"" means any event or circumstance beyond the reasonable control of any Party (other than general industry, business or economic conditions or competitive factors adversely affecting Discovery or FoundryCo) that could not have been avoided by due diligence and use of reasonable efforts by the affected Party, including war (declared or not), hostilities, blockade, revolution, insurrection, riot, fire, flood, earthquake, storm or similar acts of God, change of Law and acts of Governmental Authorities.
Force Majeure Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Group
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
IBM Development and License Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local or similar statute, law, ordinance, decree, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement or rule of law (including common law).
Law
"" shall mean the chief executive officer and chief financial officer and such other officers of FoundryCo as may be designated as such by the Board.
Management Team
"" means the Master Transaction Agreement by and among Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto, dated as of October 6, 2008, as may be amended from time to time.
Master Transaction Agreement
"" means those contracts set forth in of the Disclosure Schedule of the Master Transaction Agreement, as updated by FoundryCo on each Funding Date.
Material FoundryCo Contract
Section 4.13(a)
"" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of FoundryCo filed with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
"" is the estimated level of gross third-party debt funding for any Fiscal Year, based on the Minimum Funding Level scenario, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Minimum Debt Funding Level
"" is the level of equity funding as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan for any Fiscal Year during Phase II, which is intended to be sufficient to both (i) continue to meet Discovery's volume requirements as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, and (ii) continue to build out both Fab 38 in Dresden and Fab 4x in New York to the capacities required to ensure continued availability of one hundred percent (100%) of the Dresden Subsidies and one hundred percent (100%) of the New York Subsidies, that the cumulative amount of such equity funding shall not exceed $3.582 billion.
Minimum Funding Level
provided, however,
"" means subsidies in the amount and form approved as of the Closing Date and, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, in the form of grants, incentives and other benefits provided, or to be provided, by the Empire State Development Corporation, the State of New York and the County of Saratoga relating only to building Fab 4x and not any other fabs in New York.
New York Subsidies
"" means, as of any determination date, the aggregate number of outstanding Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares, assuming conversion of all outstanding Class A Convertible Notes into Class A Preferred Shares and the conversion of all outstanding Class B Convertible Notes into Class B Preferred Shares, each in accordance with the terms set forth therein.
Number of Outstanding Preferred Shares
"" is the level of original equity funding (excluding any Debt Funding Level) as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan for any Fiscal Year through Phase II without giving effect to any Minimum Funding Level or Transition Funding Level, that the cumulative amount of such equity funding shall not exceed $5.847 billion.
Original Funding Level
provided, however,
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Oyster/FoundryCo Cash Consideration
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Permitted Transferee
 
"" means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" means the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2010.
Phase I
"" means the period commencing on the first day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 and ending on the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2013.
Phase II
"" means the period commencing the first day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2014 and ending on the date this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof.
Phase III
"" is the level of equity funding for any Fiscal Year during Phase III, which shall be sufficient to meet Discovery's MPU volume requirements for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, and shall include additional funding up to, at Oyster's election: (i) the level of funding as set forth in the most recently approved Annual Business Plan, or (ii) a level of funding sufficient to continue to build out the next fabs after Fab 4x, as determined by Oyster in its sole discretion.
Phase III Alternate Funding Level
"" means, as of any determination date, the aggregate number of Securities owned as of such date by a Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees divided by the aggregate number of Securities owned as of such date by both Shareholders and their Permitted Transferees, calculated on an as-converted into Class B Ordinary Shares basis, but excluding (i) any Class B Ordinary Shares or Securities, or securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for any Class B Ordinary Shares or Securities, held by any Person other than a Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees; (ii) the Additional Shares with respect to the Class B Preferred Shares and (iii) any accrued and unpaid interest on the Convertible Notes.
Pro Rata Portion
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Reconciliation Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries
"" means any or all of the Class A Preferred Shares, Class B Preferred Shares, Class A Convertible Notes, if any, and Class B Convertible Notes, if any, issued by FoundryCo pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and any securities into which such Securities may be converted, exchanged or exercised.
Securities
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the Shareholders' Agreement among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo, dated as of the date hereof, as may be amended from time to time.
Shareholders' Agreement
"" or "", with respect to any Person, means any and all corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures, associations and other entities controlled by such Person, directly or indirectly or in which such Person directly or indirectly has at least 50% of the voting power to elect the board of directors or other governing body of such entity, , that solely for purposes of this Agreement neither FoundryCo nor any member of the FoundryCo Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Discovery following the Closing. The foregoing proviso shall be applicable only to this Agreement and shall not be applicable to, and shall have no relevance with respect to, any other agreement, arrangement, understanding, contract, license or mortgage to which any of Oyster, Discovery or FoundryCo, or any of their respective Affiliates, is or may become a party or the interpretation thereof, unless such proviso is included therein.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
provided, however
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 
"" is the level of equity funding during the Transition Period, which shall be sufficient to meet Discovery's MPU volume requirements for such period, such requirements to be based on binding MPU forecasts for such period delivered and agreed to in accordance with the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Transition Funding Level
"" means a period beginning on the date of notice of Oyster's election to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to or , as applicable, and ending on the later of (i) twelve (12) months after such date and (ii) the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2013.
Transition Period
Section 8.02(a)(ii)
Section 8.03(a)(ii)
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Wafer Supply Agreement
. The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Sections set forth below:
Table of Additional Definitions
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
This (this "") is made this [    ] day of [                    ], 200[    ], (the ""), by and among (i) Advanced Micro Devices, Inc, a Delaware corporation (""); (ii) with respect to all of the provisions in this Agreement other than those in Sections 5.5(a), 6.2 and 7.3(a) and the related provisions in connection with U.S. sales activities only (though without limiting FoundryCo's guarantee obligations pursuant to Section 15.7), [FoundryCo], an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("") on behalf of itself and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, including all FoundryCo Sales Entities and FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities, as further set forth herein; and (iii) subject to FoundryCo's guarantee obligations pursuant to Section 15.7, with respect to Sections 5.5(a), 6.2 and 7.3(a) and the related provisions in connection with U.S. sales activities only, [USOpCo], a [Delaware] corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FoundryCo ().
W S A
AFER
UPPLY
GREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
.
AMD
FoundryCo
"USOpCo"
WHEREAS, AMD has been in the business of designing and manufacturing semiconductor products;
WHEREAS, AMD desires to transfer its business of manufacturing and sorting semiconductor products to FoundryCo pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement by and among AMD, Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC and West Coast Hitech L.P., dated as of October 6, 2008 (as may be amended from time to time, the "");
Master Agreement
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the parties that this Agreement establish a productive, mutually-beneficial relationship among the parties that will mitigate key risks for each party by establishing volume, capacity and pricing commitments by each party pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS, the parties also desire that this Agreement help establish business processes for the parties to work closely together on planning capacity and supply;
WHEREAS, FoundryCo is a company whose primary purpose is the provision of wafer fabrication foundry services and FoundryCo is willing to provide such services to AMD on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and AMD is willing to engage FoundryCo to provide foundry services to AMD on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, all purchases of Products by AMD will be made from FoundryCo Sales Entities, including USOpCo, and all manufacturing of Products for AMD will be made by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises of the parties, and of good and valuable consideration, it is agreed by and among the parties as follows:
1. DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Agreement the following capitalized terms are defined in this Section 1 and shall have the meaning specified herein. Other terms that are capitalized but not specifically defined below or in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
1.1 shall mean the actual number of Wafer Outs for GPU Products delivered in a fiscal quarter from the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entities to AMD.
"Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped"
1.2 shall mean the actual number of Wafer Outs for GPU Products delivered in a fiscal quarter from all foundry partners to AMD.
"Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.3 is calculated as Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped divided by Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand.
"Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage"
1.4 shall mean materials or tooling that AMD consigns to the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities for use by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to process AMD's Product orders or to perform services on AMD's behalf, as further set forth in this Agreement, including such materials or tooling (other than Sort Equipment owned by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities on the Effective Date pursuant to the Master Agreement) required by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to provide Sort Services pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
"AMD Furnished Property"
1.5 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
"AMD Indemnified Parties"
1.6 **** shall mean the [****] of:
"[
]"
(a) During a Period, the number of [****] by the [****], [****] by the [****] the number of [****] and the number of [****], which, in an equation format, shall be:
(b) During such Period, (i)(1) the number of [****] by the [****] and then [****] by (2) the [****] the [****], [****] by (ii) the [****] of (1) the number of [****] and (2) the number of [****] by the [****], which, in an equation format, shall be:
1.7 **** shall mean the [****] of [****] for [****].
"[
]"
1.8 **** shall mean all [****] actually incurred during a Period, other than the [****]. For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, [****] shall include, and AMD shall pay, [****] for the [****] existing on the Effective Date (which shall be [****] and [****]) and [****] for the [****], and agreed to by the parties, pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1 that have not been recouped by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities.
"[
]"
1.9 **** shall mean the amount calculated by [****] (a) the [****] attributable to MPU Products manufactured for AMD at the end of a relevant Period from (b) the [****] attributable to MPU Products manufactured for AMD at the beginning of such Period (excluding, in each case, Raw Wafers).
"[
]"
1.10 **** shall mean all [****] in the [****] (including [****] and [****] (which shall include [****] on [****] owned by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities on the Effective Date), and whether or not [****]) and which would properly be included according to industry and accounting standards in the [****] of a [****], [****] or a [****]. [****] shall not include [****], nor shall it include [****] or [****]. [****] shall be [****] to the [****] of [****] and [****]. In addition, [****] shall be [****] to the [****] of [****] and [****].
"[
]"
1.11 **** shall mean FoundryCo's allocation of [****] related to [****] not otherwise specified as [****], as determined in accordance with industry and accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo, and which includes as of the Effective Date a portion of the [****] of [****], a portion of the [****] of the [****] organization (mostly within the sub-organization ["****,"] which is almost entirely [****]), a portion of the [****] related to [****], as well as a portion of other [****] (including certain [****] allocated to [****]) that are [****] in direct support of the [****] in the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' facilities.
"[
]"
1.12 ****" shall mean the [****] of:
"[
]
(a) During a Period, the number of [****] by the actual [****], [****] by the [****] the number of [****] and the number of [****], which, in an equation format, shall be:
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
; and
(b) During such Period, (i)(1) the number of [****] by (2) the [****] the [****], [****] by (ii) the [****] of (1) the number of [****] and (2) the number of [****] by the [****], which, in an equation format, shall be: [****]
1.13 **** shall mean the sum of [****], [****] and [****].
"[
]"
1.14 **** shall mean those [****] actually [****] during a Period, consisting of [****], and [****] percent ([****]%) of [****].
"[
]"
1.15 **** shall mean the [****] by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities in developing [****].
"[
]"
1.16 **** shall mean [****] percent ([****]%) of the aggregate [****] fees [****] by FoundryCo according to the [****] between [****] and AMD dated as of [****], as may be amended from time to time, for both [****] and [****] process technologies, and [****] percent ([****]%) of any additional [****] required specifically for [****].
"[
]"
1.17 shall refer to any manufacturing or sorting process technology used at the time of development by any FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity specifically for AMD. For purposes of example only, as of the Effective Date, the [****] is currently considered an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology. For the avoidance of doubt, [****] process technology, unless specifically designed to manufacture only Products, is not an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology.
"AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology"
1.18 shall mean the Wafer Starts of AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers.
"AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafer Starts"
1.19 shall mean Process Engineering Wafers processed by a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity utilizing an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology.
"AMD-Specific Process Development Wafers" or "AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers"
1.20 **** shall mean the portion of [****] to produce AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers. It shall be determined based on the [****] of [****] to [****] (for [****]).
"[
]"
1.21 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which a Product is Qualified.
"AMD-Specific Product Qualification Plan"
1.22 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which an AMD-Specific Qualified Process is established and tested at the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity and the MPU Products are manufactured using an AMD-Specific Qualified Process to meet the Specifications.
"AMD-Specific Qualification Plan"
1.23 shall mean the wafer manufacturing processes used at the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity specifically for production of Wafers for AMD with respect to MPU Products, and any other FoundryCo-proprietary wafer manufacturing process approved by the parties specifically to produce MPU Products on AMD's behalf.
"AMD-Specific Qualified Process"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.24 **** shall mean the [****] of [****], [****] and [****].
"[
]"
1.25 **** shall mean the [****] of the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' [****] to [****] the [****] of (a) any [****] within the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and (b) any [****] to AMD.
"[
]"
1.26 shall mean AMD's MPU Product forecast for the first [****] months of any rolling [****] month MPU Product forecast as set forth in Section 5.1 and in accordance with Section 2.2. For the avoidance of doubt, a "Binding Forecast" shall not include any forecast that requires more capacity to manufacture the relevant Products than the capacity that had been agreed upon pursuant to Section 2.2.
"Binding Forecast"
1.27 shall mean the first [****] months of any rolling [****] month MPU Product forecast.
"Binding Forecast Period"
1.28 **** shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
"
[
]
"
1.29 **** shall mean a transaction with or among [****] or any of its subsidiaries and any other person (other than FoundryCo) with respect to (a) a merger, consolidation, business combination or similar transaction of [****], (b) any purchase of an equity interest (including by means of a tender or exchange offer) representing an amount equal to or greater than a [****] percent ([****]%) voting or economic interest in [****], or (c) any purchase of assets, securities or ownership interests representing an amount equal to or greater than [****] percent ([****]%) of the consolidated assets of [****] and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (including stock of [****]'s subsidiaries); provided that a sale or transfer of assets that are not used to manufacture on behalf of [****] shall not be included in the calculation of assets to determine a [****] Change of Control Transaction.
"[
] Change of Control Transaction
"
1.30 shall mean cost of goods sold in accordance with AMD's standard practices in effect as of the Effective Date.
"COGS"
1.31 shall mean all proprietary or nonpublic information disclosed by one party to another party in connection with this Agreement, whether in graphic, oral, written or electronic form, directly or indirectly, which information (a) is marked as "proprietary" or "confidential" or, if disclosed orally, is designated as confidential or proprietary at the time of disclosure, or (b) provided under circumstances reasonably indicating that it constitutes confidential and proprietary information.
"Confidential Information"
1.32 shall mean a factor calculated once per fiscal year (within the first fiscal quarter of a year for application to that fiscal year) by FoundryCo to reflect [****] for processing [****] versus a [****]. The Development Factor is used for the [****] of [****] for a Period into [****] and [****]. The Development Factor consists of a factor for [****] and a factor for [****] that are consolidated into one factor (weighted with the [****] of the respective [****] categories). The development factor for [****] reflects the higher effort due to engineering times before, during and after processing [****], e.g. creation of ERFs, writing reports, R&D-analysis, and split lots. The calculation is based on [****] via [****] for representative ERFs and on processing data of the ERFs in the manufacturing execution system (currently [****]). The development factor for [****] reflects the [****] for ****] versus a [****]. The data is collected and calculated through a software tool. Output of this software tool is per [****] versus [****] over [****]. This [****] will be weighted with the running [****] per [****]. As of the Effective Date, the Development Factor is [****].
"Development Factor"
1.33 shall mean the combined Wafer Starts of AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers and Product Development Wafers.
"Development Wafer Starts"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.34 shall mean one of the semiconductor devices on a Wafer produced by FoundryCo for AMD using a Qualified Process.
"Die"
1.35 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(b).
"Dispute"
1.36 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(b).
"Dispute Notice"
1.37 shall mean [****] semiconductor devices or any other device based on new architecture or architecture adopted in the future, in each case, other than [****] that are used in systems that have [****], and which are not designed for use as [****] for [****] or [****]. Embedded Products shall include AMD's [****] product lines.
"Embedded Products"
1.38 shall mean any change to the process, materials, equipment, technology, location or any other items listed in FoundryCo's standard specifications for which a change would affect the performance, function or reliability of the Wafers.
"Engineering Change"
1.39 or shall mean an engineering request form submitted by AMD to FoundryCo to carry out an experiment in a process line.
"Engineering Request Form"
"ERF"
1.40 shall mean those Wafers required for the Qualification Plan or delivered to AMD for testing pursuant to AMD's request. Engineering Wafers consist of Process Development Wafers and Product Development Wafers.
"Engineering Wafers"
1.41 shall mean the occurrence of an average in-field failure rate of [****] percent ([****]%) or more per [****] of the total units for a particular Product delivered in any rolling [****] month period.
"Epidemic Failure"
1.42 **** shall mean the [****] required by FoundryCo to establish new facilities or to convert existing facilities to new wafer sizes (e.g., from 200mm to 300mm) and any other [****] which FoundryCo would otherwise include in this category.
"[
]"
1.43 shall mean a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast describing the monthly Wafer Outs expected to be placed by AMD on FoundryCo Sales Entities for GPU Products.
"Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand"
1.44 shall mean a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast describing the total Wafer Outs expected to be placed by AMD on all foundry partners for GPU Products.
"Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand"
1.45 is calculated as Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand divided by Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand.
"Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage"
1.46 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
"FoundryCo Indemnified Parties"
1.47 shall mean FoundryCo and any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of FoundryCo to which FoundryCo has delegated the responsibility to manufacture Products for AMD in accordance with this Agreement.
"FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities"
1.48 shall mean USOpCo and any other direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of FoundryCo to which FoundryCo has delegated the responsibility to process purchase orders from AMD and to offer to sell and sell Products to AMD in accordance with this Agreement.
"FoundryCo Sales Entities"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.49 shall mean both (a) MPU Products that incorporate GPU Products and (b) GPU Products that incorporate MPU Products.
"Fusion Products"
1.50 shall mean gases, acids and chemicals.
"GAC"
1.51 shall mean standard general and administrative expenses, as calculated by FoundryCo in accordance with accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo.
"G&A Expenses"
1.52 "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c)(ii).
GPU Minimum Percentage
1.53 shall mean an integrated or discrete graphics processing unit. As an example, as of the Effective Date, GPU Products consist of integrated or discrete graphics processing unit for use in any of the following or similar products: [****] or [****].
"GPU Products"
1.54 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(c).
"Interim Relief Proceeding"
1.55 shall mean the time between the date an order is accepted by a FoundryCo Sales Entity and the date the Wafers are made available for shipment by the FoundryCo Sales Entity.
"Lead Time"
1.56 shall mean a change to a manufacturing process that would affect the form, fit, or function of a Product of AMD or that otherwise materially affects a manufacturing process for AMD.
"Major Change"
1.57 "shall mean the minimum total number of Wafers in a Process Batch for a particular Product.
Minimum Batch Size
"
1.58 shall mean any of the following: (i) the x86, x86-64, and IA (Intel Architecture)-64 families of microprocessors, (ii) any existing or new microprocessors based on the x86, x86-64, and IA-64 family architecture, or any new instruction set for a processor described in clause (i) first introduced by AMD, (iii) any microprocessors based on new architecture or an architecture adopted in the future, or (iv) Fusion Products. As used in this definition, a microprocessor shall include a component that can execute computer programs and is the central processing unit controlling an electronic device.
"MPU Products"
1.59 shall mean any future integrated circuit devices designed by AMD other than GPU Products and MPU Products.
"Other Future Products"
1.60 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
"Partnership Committee"
1.61 shall mean a fiscal month or fiscal quarter, as applicable to the specific measurement period in question.
"Period"
1.62 " shall mean a group of wafers that are processed together as a group.
"
Process Batch
1.63 shall mean Engineering Wafers produced by a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity to enable it to design, develop, establish, test, improve and validate FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity manufacturing processes. For avoidance of doubt, Process Development Wafers or Process Engineering Wafers shall not include Engineering Wafers expressly requested by AMD, which shall be counted as Product Development Wafers.
"Process Development Wafers" or "Process Engineering Wafers"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.64 shall mean a specific geometry loosely based on minimum line width at which semiconductor integrated circuit devices, and the photomasks or reticles used in the manufacture of those devices, are manufactured (e.g., a 45 nm process node). For avoidance of doubt, Process Nodes shall include half nodes (e.g., 40nm and 28nm process nodes).
"Process Node"
1.65 shall mean an integrated circuit device incorporating AMD's proprietary designs to be manufactured by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and sold to AMD by the FoundryCo Sales Entities, including Embedded Products, GPU Products, MPU Products and Other Future Products. The Products will be provided to AMD as unprobed Wafers, probed Wafers or bumped Wafers, as specified in the applicable purchase order.
"Product"
1.66 shall mean Engineering Wafers requested by AMD and produced by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to test, evaluate and validate Product designs, including, but not limited to, design verification and engineering verification.
"Product Development Wafers"
1.67 **** shall mean the portion of [****] related to Product Development Wafer Starts, determined as the [****] of [****] to [****] (for [****]).
"[
]"
1.68 shall mean the Wafer Starts of Product Development Wafers.
"Product Development Wafer Starts"
1.69 shall mean the finished silicon wafers for the Products to be manufactured by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities in accordance with the applicable Specifications and using the Qualified Processes, and shall include Risk Starts.
"Production Wafers"
1.70 shall mean Wafer Starts for Production Wafers.
"Production Wafer Starts"
1.71 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which a Qualified Process is established and tested at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and relevant Wafers are manufactured using the Qualified Process to meet the Specifications.
"Qualification Plan"
1.72 or shall mean the mutual determination that the relevant Wafers meet the Specifications in accordance with the applicable Qualification Plan for a particular Product.
"Qualification"
"Qualified"
1.73 shall mean the wafer manufacturing processes used at FoundryCo for production of relevant Wafers, and any other FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity proprietary wafer manufacturing process approved by the parties to produce relevant Wafers.
"Qualified Process"
1.74 "" or "" shall mean business reviews held every fiscal quarter by the Partnership Committee or their designees as mutually agreed to by the parties.
Quarterly Business Reviews
QBRs
1.75 "" or "" shall mean technical reviews held every fiscal quarter by the Partnership Committee or their designees as mutually agreed to by the parties.
Quarterly Technical Reviews
QTRs
1.76 shall mean research and development.
"R & D"
1.77 shall mean unprocessed or bare silicon wafers purchased by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and used by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities as a substrate to enable the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to fabricate Wafers on behalf of AMD as set forth in this Agreement.
"Raw Wafers"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.78 shall mean the actual cost to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities of a Raw Wafer.
"Raw Wafer Cost"
1.79 shall mean a recall, field correction, market withdrawal, stock recovery, or other similar action with respect to any Products delivered under this Agreement and related to manufacturing of such Products (and not related to AMD's Product designs or Specifications) other than Engineering Wafers.
"Recall"
1.80 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b).
"Relevant Executive Officer"
1.81 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.1.
"Representatives"
1.82 shall mean with respect to Confidential Information, information in non-tangible form which may be incidentally retained in the unaided memory of the receiving party's personnel having had access to the Confidential Information of the disclosing party, and which such personnel cannot identify as Confidential Information of the disclosing party. Such personnel's memory is "unaided" if the personnel have not intentionally memorized any Confidential Information of the disclosing party.
"Residual Information"
1.83 shall mean Production Wafer Starts for Products that have yet to be accepted by a customer. Process Development Wafers and Product Development Wafers are not Risk Starts.
"Risk Starts"
1.84 shall mean request for quotation with respect to the [****].
"RFQ"
1.85 shall mean return material authorization. An RMA process is a process by which Products are identified as defective, returned to a FoundryCo Sales Entity or scrapped, and the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity or FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity undertakes specified remediation activities and provides refunds or credits, as further specified in Exhibit E.
"RMA"
1.86 shall mean a percentage of the Target Yield for each Product, as determined by the Partnership Committee on a Product by Product basis.
"RMA Threshold"
1.87 shall mean standard sales and marketing expenses, as calculated by FoundryCo in accordance with accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo.
"Sales and Marketing Expenses"
1.88 shall mean use of a layered silicon-insulator-silicon substrate in the process of manufacturing Wafers.
"SOI"
1.89 shall mean equipment owned as of the Effective Date by FoundryCo to perform Sort Services for MPU Products.
"Sort Equipment"
1.90 shall mean the wafer testing and sorting services to be provided by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities upon agreement of the parties to determine conformance of the Wafers with the Specifications.
"Sort Services"
1.91 shall mean all cost incurred in providing Sort Services, including the depreciation on Sort Equipment.
"Sort Services Cost"
1.92 shall mean the AMD Product specifications agreed upon by the parties on a Product by Product basis, initially consistent with AMD's current specifications for existing Products currently being manufactured by AMD as of the Effective Date.
"Specifications"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1.93 shall mean the anticipated Yield for each Product determined on a fiscal quarter basis by the parties as set forth in Section 3.7.
"Target Yield"
1.94 **** shall mean [****].
"[
]"
1.95 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.3.
"Transition Period"
1.96 shall mean the Transition Services Agreement between AMD and FoundryCo dated of even date herewith.
"Transition Services Agreement"
1.97 **** shall mean [****].
"[
]"
1.98 shall mean Engineering Wafers, Production Wafers, or both, as applicable.
"Wafers"
1.99 shall mean completed Wafers processed for delivery to AMD.
"Wafer Outs"
1.100 shall mean the price of Wafers quoted by FoundryCo Sales Entities to AMD on a Product by Product basis and thereafter set forth on a purchase order from AMD to the FoundryCo Sales Entities.
"Wafer Price"
1.101 shall mean Wafers that have started the manufacturing process.
"Wafer Starts"
1.102 shall mean the time following delivery of a Product when the performance warranty set forth in Section 9.1 is available for such Product. This Warranty Period shall be reviewed and approved by the Partnership Committee on a Product by Product basis, but in the absence of a specific Warranty Period approved by the Partnership Committee, the default Warranty Period for a Product will be [****].
"
Warranty Period
"
1.103 shall mean the actual percentage of Die on a Wafer that conform to the Specifications as measured at Wafer sort.
"Yield"
1.104 shall mean the percentage of Die on a Wafer that do not conform with the Specifications as measured at Wafer sort.
"Yield Loss"
2. PURCHASE AND CAPACITY COMMITMENTS
2.1
Purchase Commitments.
(a) . During the term of this Agreement and subject to Section 2.1(b), AMD agrees to purchase all of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' MPU Product requirements from FoundryCo Sales Entities in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, provided that if FoundryCo is not in compliance with its obligations to provide the agreed to capacity or to provide all of the MPU Products pursuant to the Binding Forecasts and applicable purchase orders in a timely manner, within the Yield requirements, on Qualified Processes and in accordance with the Specifications, then the parties agree to meet, discuss and implement a mutually acceptable corrective action plan to address such non-compliance as well as a mutually acceptable plan to allow FoundryCo to provide the agreed to capacity and to provide all of the MPU Products pursuant to the Binding Forecasts and applicable purchase orders in a timely manner, within the Yield requirements, on Qualified Processes and in accordance with the Specifications going forward. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that AMD acquires a business from a third party that either manufactures or has manufactured MPU Products, then AMD shall have a commercially reasonable period of time to transition manufacture of such MPU Products to FoundryCo; provided that such period of time to transition shall not exceed two (2) years from the date of such acquisition, unless consented to by FoundryCo (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
MPU Products
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
(b) .
Second Sourcing
i. Notwithstanding Section 2.1(a), AMD may source up to [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' quarterly MPU Product Wafer requirements with [****] at Process Nodes of [****] or [****], until [****].
ii. If at any time while AMD may purchase the applicable MPU Products from [****], FoundryCo cannot deliver in a timely manner Qualified Products produced on Qualified Processes that meet the Specifications in accordance with Binding Forecasts, the Partnership Committee shall promptly address the situation, including conducting a prompt review process and implementing a corrective action plan. If, however, such failure to so deliver such Products is causing AMD to fail to meet its material commitments to its customers, and AMD as a result needs to purchase greater MPU Product volumes from [****] than otherwise set forth above, AMD may increase its purchases at [****] for the affected MPU Products above the [****] percent ([****]%) maximum to meet such customer requirements. AMD may thereafter continue to purchase MPU Products over the [****] percent ([****]%) maximum until such time as FoundryCo demonstrates, as mutually agreed upon, that FoundryCo can meet the relevant Specifications and Yields for such MPU Product in a manner reasonably comparable or better than those of [****], as well as meet the applicable supply commitments set forth in this Agreement or as actually required by AMD.
iii. Upon request from AMD and [****], FoundryCo agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide technical assistance to [****] with respect to an agreed upon plan to enable [****]'s efforts to manufacture the applicable MPU Products, including, subject to any applicable third-party sublicensing and disclosure restrictions, granting access and rights to necessary process technology, provided that [****] agrees to use such assistance solely to manufacture applicable MPU Products for AMD and to enter into a confidentiality agreement reasonably satisfactory to FoundryCo. AMD agrees to bear the reasonable expenses approved in advance by AMD and actually incurred by FoundryCo to provide such assistance.
iv. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, upon the occurrence of [****] Change of Control Transaction, AMD shall not be permitted thereafter to engage [****] as a second source manufacturer of any MPU Products, subject to a reasonable wind-down period to move the production of the applicable MPU Products to Qualified Processes at the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities without materially affecting AMD's supply obligations to its customers. FoundryCo agrees, in good faith, to work with AMD to resolve any issues related to AMD's ongoing customer relationship as a result of AMD's inability to engage [****] as a second source manufacturer. Notwithstanding the foregoing and except for the reasonable transition period contemplated in the final sentence of Section 2.1(a), to the extent the relevant MPU Products were being made by [****] or [****] at the time AMD acquired the applicable business pursuant to the final sentence of Section 2.1(a), AMD agrees not to second source any MPU Products from [****] or [****] or any company controlled by [****] or [****].
(c)
GPU Products.
i. AMD commits to, and the parties agree to work together, to establish FoundryCo's ability to manufacture GPU Products via a high volume bulk 32 nm process with Specifications to be agreed upon in advance by the parties in writing.
ii. At such time as FoundryCo has established a 32 nm Qualified Process, AMD agrees, subject to this Section 2.1(c), that it will purchase from FoundryCo Sales Entities at least [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' monthly Wafer requirements for the GPU Products at all Process Nodes, as further detailed in Exhibit C, ramping up linearly over a five (5) year period beginning with the fiscal month in which the initial [****] percent ([****]%) GPU Product volume sourcing commitment has been met, to at least [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Wafer requirements of its GPU Products (such minimum percentage, the " "). If for an applicable quarter it is determined that AMD has not placed the GPU Minimum Percentage of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' GPU Products for manufacture by FoundryCo as set forth herein, the parties agree to meet, discuss and implement a mutually acceptable corrective action plan to address such non-compliance and to enable FoundryCo to manufacture higher volumes of the GPU Products in future.
GPU Minimum
Percentage
iii. For each GPU Product (including the first-tape out of such GPU Product), FoundryCo shall have a [****] in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B to manufacture such GPU Product. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that FoundryCo shall have such [****] in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B with respect to each GPU Product (whether or not such GPU Product is first GPU Product) at [****].
iv. AMD agrees not to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its or the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' assets related to GPU Products and related technology (including the equity interests of ATI Technologies ULC or its other subsidiaries that own such assets) to any person (other than to AMD or another Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries) without the consent of FoundryCo, unless the transferee (A) agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement with respect to GPU Products, [****] and the GPU volume commitment set forth in this section 2.1(c), and (B) agrees to purchase, on an annual basis, GPU Products in an amount equal to the GPU Minimum Percentage (determined at the time of such transfer) of AMD's volume of total GPU Products purchased from any foundry during the one (1) year period before such transfer, or if such transfer takes place less than one (1) year from the Effective Date, then the annualized volume for the period from the Effective Date to such transfer date.
(d) . FoundryCo shall continue to manufacture the Embedded Products (other than such Products on [****] technology), in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that AMD is manufacturing as of the Effective Date so long as AMD gives FoundryCo commercially viable volumes, as determined by the Partnership Committee.
Embedded Products
(e) . AMD shall have no purchase commitment with respect to any Other Future Products; provided, however, that in the event AMD introduces a tape-out of any Other Future Products, FoundryCo shall have a right of first refusal in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B to manufacture such Other Future Product (including the first tape-out of such Other Future Product), subject to Qualification of such Other Future Product at such Process Node.
Other Future Products
2.2 The parties agree to work in good faith to review the forecast with respect to MPUs provided by AMD pursuant to Section 5.1, including a review of all incremental [****] and [****] expected to [****] by FoundryCo resulting from any [****] in the MPU Product volumes pursuant to the MPU Product forecasts. Upon completion of such review, and to the extent agreed to by the parties regarding the implementation of any additional capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities, FoundryCo shall allocate such additional capacity sufficient to produce the MPU Product volumes indicated in the relevant Binding Forecasts. The parties agree to act in good faith and in reasonable manner in connection with such review and any agreement to allocate such capacity. The parties agree to establish capacity requirements in writing in advance for the manufacture and supply of GPU Products. Notwithstanding the foregoing, FoundryCo will use commercially reasonable efforts to fill any unutilized capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities that has been allocated to AMD as set forth in this Agreement with production on behalf of third parties, and FoundryCo will offset AMD's obligations to reimburse FoundryCo's fixed costs for such unutilized capacity by the percentage of such unutilized capacity FoundryCo uses to manufacture products for third parties; provided that FoundryCo shall not be required to fill such unutilized capacity that has been allocated to AMD if there exists unutilized capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities that has not been allocated to AMD.
Capacity Commitment.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
3. PROCESS IMPLEMENTATION
3.1 The parties will maintain communication via applicable technical personnel to ensure production and delivery of Products in accordance with the requirements as set forth in this Agreement.
Operational Coordination.
3.2 .
Partnership Committee
(a) . The parties hereto shall create a partnership committee (the "") which shall have responsibility for the implementation of this Agreement and for the relationship between FoundryCo and AMD. The Partnership Committee shall be comprised of at least four (4) members, with each of AMD and FoundryCo appointing an equal number of representatives. The Partnership Committee will create or approve general guidelines, policies, and procedures governing the process for determining any specific parameters to be mutually established by the parties (e.g., production volume forecast, customer feedback, Specifications, Target Yields). The Partnership Committee will meet (a) on a quarterly basis, (b) at the request of any party in connection with the resolution of a dispute, and (c) at the reasonable request of any party to address significant issues with respect to this Agreement. The Partnership Committee or its designees will also conduct QBRs and QTRs.
Partnership Committee Composition
Partnership Committee
(b) . If at any point the Partnership Committee members are deadlocked and cannot reach agreement on an issue, the Partnership Committee will notify the relevant executive officer (each, a "") of AMD and FoundryCo of the issue. If the Relevant Executive Officers reasonably determine that the issue warrants further escalation, the Relevant Executive Officers will then discuss the issue in person or by telephone and the parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve the issue for a period of ten (10) Business Days. If the issue is not resolved, as agreed by AMD and FoundryCo, within such ten (10) Business Day period, the issue will be escalated to the chief executive officers of AMD and FoundryCo.
Dispute Escalation
Relevant Executive Officer
3.3 The parties will discuss in good faith the details of the introduction of new process technologies, technology roadmaps and new Process Nodes at FoundryCo (subject to, in each case, any applicable constraints to which FoundryCo may be subject pursuant to any confidentiality obligations (whether oral or in writing) to or confidentiality agreements with third parties) for use to manufacture Products, including production capacity, ramp time, dependencies and Wafer Prices. As between FoundryCo and AMD, FoundryCo will bear all expenses for introducing new process technology and new Process Nodes, as further described in Exhibit A, other than AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies.
New Processes.
3.4 If the parties agree, pursuant to Section 2.1 or otherwise, to add new non-MPU Products for FoundryCo to manufacture on AMD's behalf, AMD and FoundryCo shall agree in writing in advance on the Specifications, the AMD-Specific Product Qualification Plan and the price for such new non-MPU Products.
New Products.
3.5 Upon the agreement of the parties pursuant to a purchase order, FoundryCo will produce Product Development Wafers, using the applicable FoundryCo manufacturing process, and deliver the Product Development Wafers to AMD in accordance with the AMD-Specific Qualification Plan or the Qualification Plan agreed upon by the parties.
Product Development Wafer Production Run.
3.6 AMD shall evaluate the Wafers provided by FoundryCo in accordance with the AMD-Specific Qualification Plan or the Qualification Plan, as applicable. The parties will then assess in accordance with the procedures set forth in Exhibit G whether the applicable manufacturing process fulfills the necessary requirements to manufacture the applicable Products in commercial production quantities in accordance with all applicable Specifications and requirements.
Process Evaluation.
3.7 .
Yield Calculation Process and Yield Improvements
(a) . On a fiscal quarter basis within thirty (30) days following the end of the previous fiscal quarter, the parties will meet and review the actual Yields achieved by
Existing Products on Existing Processes
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
FoundryCo on a Product by Product basis. The parties will agree in writing on a Product by Product basis for the Target Yields for each Product that will apply to orders placed in the subsequent fiscal quarter. For the first [****] fiscal quarters following the Effective Date, the lot average actual Yields measured over the last completed fiscal quarter prior to the Effective Date for the Products calculated by AMD and provided to FoundryCo shall be used for the Target Yields.
(b) . For instances where AMD and FoundryCo have agreed that FoundryCo will manufacture a new Product for AMD and will do so on a new process that has not previously been Qualified to manufacture Products for AMD, the Partnership Committee may set a Target Yield, but Yield and Yield Loss percentages will not be calculated until the parties mutually agree that a sufficient number of Wafers have been produced to generate Target Yield data. The parties will establish in advance mutually-acceptable test criteria for determining conformance of the applicable Die to the applicable Specifications so that the Target Yield data will be determined objectively.
New Products on New Processes
(c) . For instances where AMD and FoundryCo have agreed that FoundryCo will manufacture a new Product for AMD and will do so on an existing FoundryCo process that has previously been Qualified to manufacture Products for AMD, the Partnership Committee may set a Target Yield, but the Target Yield will not be calculated until the parties mutually agree that a sufficient number of Wafers have been produced to generate Target Yield data, with a presumption that fewer Wafers will need to be produced to calculate such Target Yield data than would be required for new Products on new processes. The parties will establish in advance mutually-acceptable test criteria for determining conformance of the applicable Die to the applicable Specifications so that the Target Yield data will be determined objectively.
New Products on Existing Processes
(d) . FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts to continuously improve Yields and to decrease Yield Losses for all Products. AMD understands and accepts that design and test program changes instigated by AMD (for instance, by moving test from system level test to wafer sort test) may decrease the Wafer sort Yield and reasonably decrease the Target Yield, and agrees to reset the relevant Target Yield and Wafer sort Yield accordingly. FoundryCo shall notify AMD with respect to such decrease in the Wafer sort Yield and decrease in the Target Yield.
Yield Improvements
3.8 .
Notice of Engineering Change
(a) . FoundryCo shall not remove, destroy, cease production on, or make any Major Changes to, any Qualified Process, or the controlled process parameters or sources, types or grade classifications of materials used on any Qualified Process, with respect to any Product, except (i) in accordance with FoundryCo's then-standard, reasonable engineering change notification process as generally applied to its customers; (ii) as reviewed and approved by the Partnership Committee on a case-by-case basis; or (iii) in accordance with a mutually agreed-upon process for implementing end-of-life procedures at the request of AMD.
Engineering Change Approval
(b) . AMD may request Engineering Changes to a Qualified Process with respect to any Product from time to time. AMD agrees to provide FoundryCo reasonable specifications and rationales for making the process change, as well as propose an effective date for such Engineering Changes. FoundryCo shall respond within a reasonable period of time with a change order advising AMD as to whether it can support such change, and if it can support such change, the impact of such change on Product price, Yield, schedule, materials and work in progress. FoundryCo shall implement the requested Engineering Changes upon written agreement by AMD and FoundryCo of the terms of the change order.
Engineering Change Requests from AMD
3.9 To the extent that it is able to do so based on disclosure obligations to third parties, and upon a specific request from AMD and the receipt by FoundryCo of each relevant consent from its third party
Information.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
customers, FoundryCo agrees to share with AMD the necessary technical and manufacturing information to ensure successful performance and production ramp of Products. Without limiting the foregoing, FoundryCo agrees to provide AMD the information listed in Exhibit D in accordance with the delivery schedules specified in Exhibit D for the applicable information.
3.10 The parties acknowledge and agree that it is in the best interest of each party that FoundryCo design and implement new processes and new Process Nodes to enable FoundryCo to manufacture Products on behalf of AMD and to obtain additional customers for its services. Therefore, AMD agrees to use reasonable efforts to provide FoundryCo information and assistance to enable FoundryCo to implement manufacturing processes at Process Nodes that are equivalent to or better than similar manufacturing processes at the same or higher Process Nodes in the marketplace. This information sharing between AMD and FoundryCo will be conducted through the Quarterly Technical Reviews and Quarterly Business Reviews or as otherwise agreed by the parties.
Technical Assistance to Enable FoundryCo to Implement New Processes and New Process Nodes.
4. PRODUCTION
4.1 Upon the successful completion of Qualification, the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities will manufacture the Products, utilizing the applicable Qualified Processes, for AMD in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
General.
4.2 .
Sort Services and Sort Equipment
(a) . As part of the Wafer supply services performed by FoundryCo for AMD under this Agreement, FoundryCo agrees to provide the Sort Services on a Product by Product basis as requested by AMD. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, AMD shall consign to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities all equipment and tooling (other than the Sort Equipment described below in Section 4.2(b), but including any upgrade to then existing equipment and tooling) necessary for the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to provide Sort Services, and such equipment and tooling shall be considered AMD Furnished Property subject to Section 4.3 below.
Sort Services
(b) . The Sort Equipment will be owned by FoundryCo pursuant to the Master Agreement. The parties will meet and discuss in good faith with respect to any proposal from FoundryCo or AMD to modify or dispose of any of the Sort Equipment. In the event any or all of the Sort Equipment is no longer useable for providing Sort Services for MPU Products or for products of FoundryCo's other customers due to AMD changes in its test platforms or otherwise, FoundryCo may dispose of such Sort Equipment in any reasonable manner and AMD agrees to reimburse FoundryCo for the [****] between (i) the [****] of (A) [****] percent ([****]%) of the [****] of the disposed Sort Equipment, (B) [****] to dispose of the Sort Equipment, (C) all [****] and [****] (and any [****] related to such [****] and [****]) required to be [****] as a result of such disposition, and (D) [****] incurred by FoundryCo on such disposition, and (ii) the [****] from the [****] of Sort Equipment [****] by FoundryCo. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the [****] resulting from the [****] of such Sort Equipment, [****] the [****] to be [****] by AMD as set forth above, including the [****] of [****] or [****] results in a [****] from such disposal of the Sort Equipment, then FoundryCo agrees to [****] AMD the [****] resulting from such disposal of the Sort Equipment.
Sort Equipment
4.3 AMD may provide FoundryCo AMD Furnished Property from time to time to enable FoundryCo to provide the services specified under this Agreement. All such AMD Furnished Property shall be itemized and agreed upon in writing by the parties from time to time. All equipment and tooling included in the AMD Furnished Property shall be installed at the locations agreed upon in writing in advance and shall not be serviced without the prior written consent of AMD on a case-by-case basis, except that AMD's prior written consent shall not be required if the AMD Furnished Property is serviced by appropriate FoundryCo
AMD Furnished Property.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Manufacturing Entity personnel, by the manufacturer of the AMD Furnished Property, or by an AMD pre-approved vendor. [****] shall bear all reasonable maintenance and other operational costs for all equipment consigned by AMD as part of the AMD Furnished Property. The parties will agree from time to time regarding the nature, quantity and location for all AMD Furnished Property and FoundryCo shall be responsible for the proper storage of the AMD Furnished Property, at [****] reasonable expense, and for FoundryCo's use of the AMD Furnished Property, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Upon completion of use, or upon termination of this Agreement, FoundryCo shall return such AMD Furnished Property to AMD at [****] reasonable expense in accordance with AMD's reasonable packing and shipment instructions.
4.4 It is anticipated by the parties that AMD may undertake activities as needed at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities (i) to work with FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to enhance and to improve engineering and quality initiatives with respect to the manufacture of Products for AMD and (ii) to verify maintenance of the AMD-Specific Qualified Processes and the manufacturing of the Products for AMD in accordance with the Specifications. AMD agrees to comply with all applicable safety, security and environmental policies and procedures implemented by FoundryCo at such facilities. In addition, AMD will comply with all confidentiality procedures that separate AMD activities at FoundryCo facilities from other activities related to other FoundryCo customers. FoundryCo agrees to implement reasonable safety, security and environmental procedures at all of its facilities, including reasonable security procedures to protect the confidentiality of AMD's technical information and AMD's personnel for AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology and AMD's Confidential Information.
AMD Activities at FoundryCo Facilities.
4.5 The parties will obtain and manage the reticles for the Products as further specified in Section 5.9 and Exhibit H.
Provision of Reticles.
4.6 As part of the Wafer supply services performed by FoundryCo for AMD under this Agreement, FoundryCo agrees to provide quick turn module assembly line services on a Product by Product basis as reasonably requested by AMD.
Quick Turn Module Assembly Line Services.
4.7 When FoundryCo delivers certain specific [****] equipment that was sold to [****] prior to the Effective Date and recognizes the gain on the sale of such equipment, to the extent such gain reduces [****], the gain shall be reversed in calculating [****] or [****] for the Period in which such gain was recognized by FoundryCo. For the avoidance of doubt, [****] or [****] shall not be reduced in that Period as a result of such gain.
Treatment of Gain on Sale of Specific FoundryCo Equipment.
5. ORDER AND SHIPMENT
5.1 Beginning on the Effective Date, AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing on a monthly basis a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast of its monthly volume requirements for MPU Products on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the MPU Products listed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the agreement of the parties with respect to any additional capacity requirements as specified in Section 2.2, the forecasts for capacity requirements for MPU Products shall be binding on each party regarding the Binding Forecast Period. AMD shall be required to [****] FoundryCo for [****], as part of the MPU Product pricing calculation in Exhibit A, [****]. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the parties agree that the binding capacity for the first [****] years after the Effective Date shall be [****] percent ([****]%) of the capacity at [****] plus ****] and any [****] at the request of AMD to [****] during such [****] years per mutual written agreement by the parties.
MPU Product Forecasts.
(a) In the event that during the Binding Forecast Period AMD requests additional capacity and FoundryCo provides such capacity, AMD shall also [****] FoundryCo for the [****], as part of the MPU pricing calculation in Exhibit A, for such additional capacity.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
(b) FoundryCo shall, upon receipt of the relevant [****] month rolling forecast, provide AMD, on a quarterly basis, with a non-binding forecast of the [****], [****], [****] and [****] (for [****]) at a reasonable level of detail required to produce and maintain the capacity requirements contained in such forecast.
(c) FoundryCo agrees to make a good faith effort to provide additional capacity to meet AMD requirements in excess of the capacity allocated to AMD pursuant to this Section 5.1 and Section 2.2; provided, however, that FoundryCo shall not be required to reallocate any capacity that has been committed to its other customers.
5.2 AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing and updated on a monthly basis, a rolling [****] month forecast of its Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the GPU Products listed.
GPU Products.
5.3 AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing and updated on a monthly basis, a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast of its monthly volume requirements for Wafers for Embedded Products on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the Embedded Products listed.
Embedded Products.
5.4 ****.
[
] Principles
(a) The [****] set forth in Exhibit A are based on the assumption that in the early years of this Agreement following the Effective Date, AMD will likely be the primary customer of FoundryCo, and that it will take time for FoundryCo to establish additional customers to fill capacity at its facilities not used to manufacture Products on behalf of AMD. However, subject to Section 2.2, FoundryCo agrees (i) to make a good faith effort to fill any capacity at its facilities allocated to AMD that is not required to meet FoundryCo's supply commitments under this Agreement by providing foundry services to additional customers and (ii) to offset AMD's obligations to [****] FoundryCo's [****] for such capacity by the [****] of such capacity FoundryCo uses to manufacture products for third party customers.
(b) In addition, subject to Section 2.2, if AMD notifies FoundryCo in writing that despite the binding MPU Product forecast AMD issued pursuant to Section 5.1 above, AMD's actual requirements for MPU Product production will be less than initially forecasted for the applicable Binding Forecast Period, FoundryCo agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to find customers to fill the unneeded capacity and to the extent that FoundryCo does engage alternative customers to fill such capacity no longer needed by AMD, then FoundryCo agrees not to charge AMD for the forecasted, but no longer necessary, capacity for which FoundryCo has found alternative purchasers, provided that the price paid by such alternative purchasers is equal to or greater than the purchase price for the MPU Products to have been manufactured for AMD pursuant to the applicable forecast.
(c) The parties agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to work together to reduce [****] and [****], including by improving [****].
5.5
Purchase Orders.
(a) AMD will purchase Products from FoundryCo Sales Entities pursuant to valid purchase orders referencing this Agreement that specify the purchase order number, type and quantity of Products ordered, the applicable price for such Products, the place(s) of delivery, and required delivery date(s). Purchase orders may take the form of electronic submissions in a mutually-acceptable format (including submissions currently referred to by AMD as "B+B+B files") so long as they contain the same information specified above for purchase orders, even if such submissions may not be referred to specifically as "purchase orders" when transmitted. The applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity shall provide written order acknowledgements by
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
confirmed facsimile, electronic transmission, or other mutually-agreed means as soon as reasonably practicable; provided that such purchase orders shall not be binding until accepted in writing by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no FoundryCo Sales Entity may reject an MPU Product purchase order submitted in accordance with Binding Forecasts and Lead Times, and will not unreasonably delay purchase order acknowledgments or unreasonably reject purchase orders submitted in accordance with applicable forecasts and Lead Times for all other Products. In the event of any discrepancy between any pre-printed terms on a purchase order or sales acknowledgment form or notice and the terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail and any different or additional terms shall be deemed rejected.
(b) Minimum Batch Sizes for Production Wafers shall be determined by FoundryCo on a commercially reasonable basis. Lead Times will be determined by the parties on a Product-by-Product basis. Lead Times shall take into account manufacturing process cycle times, capacity commitment times, materials ordering times, and the like.
5.6 It is anticipated that from time to time there may be instances where an accelerated lead and cycle time is required to serve the needs of AMD. AMD shall have the right to request change orders to existing purchase orders to accelerate production and delivery of specified Products by providing written notice to FoundryCo prior to the delivery of the Products impacted by such change order and FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts to meet such request; provided that, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, such lot acceleration shall be limited to [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's [****] at [****].
Acceleration.
5.7 Subject to AMD's purchase volume commitments set forth in this Agreement, including the MPU Product purchase requirements set forth in Section 5.1, AMD may cancel any purchase order or portion thereof for Products, without charge, upon [****] days advance written notice to FoundryCo prior to the applicable Wafer Start date. If AMD provides notice of cancellation on or after the applicable Wafer Start date for a Product order, then AMD agrees to pay FoundryCo [****], per a mutually-agreed scrap calculation as further described in Exhibit F, for [****] incurred by FoundryCo for the ordered Products under the cancelled purchase order, provided that such [****] may not be reasonably used by FoundryCo in fulfilling subsequent purchase orders.
Cancellations.
5.8 The parties agree to work in good faith with respect to any lot splits and lot holds requested by AMD; provided that, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, no lot hold may extend for a period exceeding [****] days and the total number of Wafers on hold cannot exceed [****] percent ([****]%) of total work in process for AMD.
Lot Splits and Lot Holds.
5.9 FoundryCo agrees to retain reticles for Products for at least [****] months following the last applicable Product delivery for the applicable reticle. At the end of such [****] month period, upon agreement by the parties, FoundryCo may return such reticles to AMD at AMD's expense if no applicable Product has been forecasted by AMD.
Reticle Holds.
5.10 If AMD decides that it will no longer offer for sale and sell a particular Product, AMD will give FoundryCo reasonable prior written notice, and the parties will mutually agree upon and implement an end of life process for the applicable Products, including any Wafers specific to that Product that may still be on hold in accordance with Section 5.8 above. As part of such discussions, the parties will determine the disposition of any reticles specific to that Product.
Product End of Life Procedures.
6. DELIVERY
6.1 The FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities will package the Products for shipment to AMD in accordance with the applicable industry standard specifications, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
Packaging.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
6.2 Unless otherwise agreed to by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity and AMD, the Products will be delivered EXW the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity (Incoterms 2000). Title to Products will pass from the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity to AMD upon receipt of the Products by AMD or its carrier at the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity shipping dock, unless the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity and AMD agree to another location. At AMD's request, the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity will arrange for transportation in accordance with standard industry practice, and AMD shall pay for the transportation of the Products.
Delivery and Risk of Loss.
7. PRICING, R&D CHARGES AND PAYMENT
7.1
Pricing.
(a) . The methodology for calculating the pricing for MPU Products is set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto. The same pricing and pricing methodology shall apply to Fusion Products, if and when such Fusion Products are developed by AMD.
MPU Product Pricing
i. MPU Product pricing for the first [****] after the Effective Date shall be the amount as determined under Section 1 of Exhibit A. Such amounts shall be determined based on FoundryCo's capacity in place to manufacture MPU Products for such [****], which shall be [****] percent ([****]%) of the [****] at [****] plus [****] and any [****] added at the request of AMD to [****] during such [****] period per mutual written agreement of the parties.
ii. MPU Product pricing for FoundryCo's fiscal years subsequent to such [****] period shall be the amount determined under Section 1 of Exhibit A and based on the [****] pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1. If FoundryCo decides, in accordance with Exhibit D to the Shareholders' Agreement, to [****] after the Effective Date [****], and the choice of location for such [****] will result in materially increased [****] for the MPU Products, then AMD and FoundryCo shall discuss in good faith [****] measures to make the [****] manufactured at such new facilities reasonably consistent with the [****] for the same type of MPU Products manufactured at [****] of FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities; provided that the parties agree that the [****] in Section 1 of Exhibit A on [****] shall not be amended. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AMD acknowledges and agrees that normal, [****] by foundries to implement new processes or new facilities shall not be taken into account in determining whether a material [****] in [****] has occurred.
(b) . At such time as FoundryCo is able to begin manufacturing GPU Products for AMD, the parties will agree on the applicable pricing for such GPU Products; provided, however, that the parties agree that such prices shall be based on [****]. The price for Engineering Wafers for GPU Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
GPU Product Pricing
(c) . The pricing for Embedded Products shall be based on [****]. The price for Engineering Wafers for Embedded Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
Embedded Product Pricing
(d) . The parties will agree on applicable pricing for any Other Future Products; provided, however, that the parties agree that such prices shall be based on [****]. The price for Engineering Wafers for Other Future Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
Other Future Product Pricing
(e) . AMD shall bear, in addition to the Product pricing agreed upon by the parties, the amount of any freight, insurance, handling and other duties levied on the shipment of Product.
Shipping Costs
(f) . The parties may from time to time agree on a Product by Product basis to alter the method of calculating the pricing for a Product, including to die-buy purchasing models, and regarding situations where Yields may be materially less than Target Yields (but greater than RMA Thresholds) or materially greater than Target Yields.
Price Calculation Process for Products other than MPU Products
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
7.2
Research and Development Charges.
(a) . The charge for [****] shall be determined pursuant to Section 2 of Exhibit A. Pursuant to Section 5 of Exhibit A, should FoundryCo produce products for other customers using the AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology, FoundryCo shall pay a rebate amount, if any, to AMD as described therein. Such rebate shall in the form of a credit by FoundryCo against the accounts receivable from AMD.
Charge for [****]
(b) . Charges for Process Development Wafers shall be determined pursuant to Section 3 of Exhibit A.
Charge for Process Development Wafers
(c) . The charge for Product Development Wafers shall be determined pursuant to Section 4 of Exhibit A.
Charge for Product Development Wafers
(d) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, FoundryCo shall not charge AMD for its [****], for any [****], or for any [****], other than as may be provided in the Transition Services Agreement.
[****], [****] and [****]
7.3
Payment.
(a) The FoundryCo Sales Entities will invoice AMD for all Products (including Product Development Wafers) shipped to AMD in a manner to be mutually agreed by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entities and AMD. Payment shall be made in U.S. Dollars in cash within forty-five (45) days after the invoice date unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
(b) The prices for MPU Products shall be based on forecasts of the [****] provided by FoundryCo to AMD pursuant to Section 5.1(b). The parties shall true-up at the end of each [****] any difference in such prices based on such forecasts and the actual [****] calculated by FoundryCo at the end of such [****]. If at the end of each fiscal [****] Period, AMD has [****] the [****] to it pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1, FoundryCo shall, as part of a mandatory, [****] true-up process, invoice AMD for the [****] related to [****]. If, as part of such [****] true-up process, AMD has previously overpaid required amounts, then the amount of overpayment will be deducted from the next payment due from AMD. FoundryCo shall invoice AMD with respect to [****] at the end of each fiscal [****].
7.4 Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the prices specified in this Agreement are exclusive of any sales, use, excise, consumption or similar taxes, and of any export and import duties, which may be levied upon or collectible by FoundryCo as a result of the sale or shipment of the products to AMD or its customers. AMD agrees to pay and otherwise be fully responsible for any such taxes and duties, unless in lieu thereof AMD provides FoundryCo with an exemption certificate acceptable to the relevant governmental authorities.
Taxes.
8. AUDIT
8.1
Audit.
(a) . FoundryCo shall keep records in sufficient detail to enable AMD to determine the correctness of the pricing for MPU Products, and to determine the correctness of the [****] allocated to AMD, in accordance with Section 7. FoundryCo shall permit said records to be inspected, at AMD's expense, upon reasonable advance notice, during regular business hours by an independent auditor selected by AMD and approved by FoundryCo, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The audit shall only be for the purpose of verifying that the MPU Product prices and the [****] allocations established in Section 7 have been properly calculated. Inspections conducted under this Section 8.1(a) shall be at AMD's expense, unless a variation or error in FoundryCo's calculations have produced an overcharge of [****] percent ([****]%) or more for the applicable audited period, in which case FoundryCo shall bear the
FoundryCo
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
reasonable expenses of such audit. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.4 or this Section 8.1, FoundryCo shall not be obligated to permit AMD to inspect any agreement or terms with other third party customers, including with respect to pricing.
(b) . AMD shall keep records in sufficient detail to enable FoundryCo to determine that AMD has complied with its second sourcing limitations in Section 2.1(b) and its GPU Product volume sourcing commitments in Section 2.1(c). AMD shall permit said records to be inspected, at FoundryCo's expense, upon reasonable advance notice, during regular business hours by an independent auditor selected by FoundryCo and approved by AMD, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The audit shall be for the purpose of verifying that AMD has complied with its second source restrictions in Section 2.1(b) and its GPU Product sourcing commitments in Section 2.1(c). Inspections conducted under this Section 8.1(b) shall be at FoundryCo's expense, unless AMD has a non-compliance variance adverse to FoundryCo of [****] percent ([****]%) or more of (i) the relevant [****] percent ([****]%) second source restriction or (ii) the GPU Minimum Percentage for the applicable audited period, in which case AMD shall bear the reasonable expenses of such audit.
AMD
9. LIMITED WARRANTY; WARRANTY DISCLAIMER
9.1 FoundryCo represents and warrants that the Products delivered hereunder (other than Engineering Wafers) shall meet the applicable Specifications, and shall be free from defects in material and workmanship, under normal use and service during the Warranty Period. If, during the Warranty Period, (i) AMD notifies FoundryCo promptly in writing upon discovery of any defect in the applicable Products, including a reasonable description of the alleged defect, or if Yield Losses exceed pre-established limits, (ii) AMD returns samples of such Products to FoundryCo pursuant to the RMA procedures described in Exhibit E, and (iii) FoundryCo determines in good faith that such Product is defective or corroborates the low Yields and that such defect or low Yield was not caused by any accident, abuse, misuse, neglect, improper installation, repair, alteration or some other action by someone other than FoundryCo, improper testing or use contrary to any instructions issued by FoundryCo, or by any other reason not attributable to FoundryCo, then FoundryCo shall undertake the actions specified in Exhibit F. The warranty in this Section 9.1 does not apply to any failure in conformance or defect to the extent arising as a result of AMD's design nor for any other cause not attributable to defective materials or workmanship or failure to meet Specifications on the part of FoundryCo. This paragraph states the exclusive remedy of AMD and FoundryCo's sole and exclusive obligation for a breach of the foregoing warranty. All Engineering Wafers delivered to AMD are delivered "AS IS," without any warranty of any kind.
Limited Warranty.
9.2 EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN SECTION 9.1, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FOUNDRYCO EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS REGARDING THE WAFERS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, AND INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ALL WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
Disclaimer.
10. INDEMNIFICATION
10.1 Except as provided for in Section 10.2 below, AMD shall, at its own expense, indemnify, defend and hold FoundryCo and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns ("") harmless from and against any liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising from any third party action, claim, suit or proceeding alleging infringement or misappropriation of such third party's patent, trademark, copyright, mask work or other intellectual property rights to the extent arising from (i) FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities making Wafers for AMD in compliance with any AMD's Product designs or Specifications, (ii) the use by FoundryCo
AMD Indemnity.
FoundryCo Indemnified Parties
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Manufacturing Entities to make Products for AMD of the same equipment, material, manufacturing methods and process technologies as those used by AMD or its Subsidiaries at the relevant facilities immediately prior to the Effective Date (provided that such indemnity shall not be applicable for this clause (ii) if such use were not in the same manner as that used by AMD or its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Date and the applicable claim directly relates to a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity's not using such equipment, materials, manufacturing methods and process technologies in the same manner for the same Products as those used by AMD or its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Date); or (iii) the use by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities of AMD Furnished Property (provided that such indemnity shall not apply with respect to this clause (iii) if the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities have not used such AMD Furnished Property in accordance with all applicable safety standards and instructions and the applicable claim directly relates to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' not complying with the applicable safety standards and instructions); provided that such indemnities shall not apply to such liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses arising from fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence of FoundryCo Indemnified Parties.
10.2 Except as provided for in Section 10.1, FoundryCo shall, at its own expense, indemnify, defend and hold AMD and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns ("") harmless from and against any liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising from any third party action, claim, suit or proceeding alleging infringement or misappropriation of such third party's patent, trademark, copyright, mask work or other intellectual property rights to the extent arising from FoundryCo's method of manufacturing the applicable Products, providing the Sort Services, or from IP blocks (e.g., standard cell libraries), (except as a result of the use by FoundryCo of the same equipment, materials, manufacturing methods and process technologies as those used by AMD or its subsidiaries at the relevant facilities immediately prior to the Effective Date); provided that such indemnity shall not apply to such liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses arising from fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence of AMD Indemnified Parties.
FoundryCo Indemnity.
AMD Indemnified Parties
10.3 The provisions of Section 12.07 of the Master Agreement shall apply in connection with any claim for a loss under this Section 10 as it relates to the indemnified party and the indemnifying party under this Section 10.
Notice of Loss; Third Party Claims.
11. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
11.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, AMD grants FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (and any permitted assignees) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right and license to make Products on behalf of AMD and to import and sell such Products to AMD. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, AMD also grants FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (and any permitted assignees) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right and license to reproduce any documentation provided by AMD hereunder to enable FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (or such permitted assignees) to manufacture the Products on behalf of AMD. All other rights are reserved. AMD confirms that on the Effective Date, AMD has not granted such rights or licenses to AMD's Technology or non-patent intellectual property rights to FoundryCo or any applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries, other than the rights or licenses granted pursuant to this Section 11.1 related to designs or Specifications for the Products and to the AMD Excluded Technology (as defined and listed in the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith).
License Grant.
11.2 Subject to the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith, as among the parties, AMD will own all right, title and interest in and to the designs and Specifications for the Products, and any other documentation that AMD provides FoundryCo pursuant to this Agreement.
AMD Ownership.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
11.3 Subject to the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith, as among the parties, FoundryCo will own all right, title and interest in and to any manufacturing process technology that the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities use to manufacture the Products hereunder.
FoundryCo Ownership.
11.4 This Agreement does not address the development and ownership of new technology or intellectual property rights. If the parties choose to work together to develop new process technology, new product technology, the parties will enter into a separate written development agreement to address the terms and conditions of such development work, and the resulting ownership and licenses applicable to any intellectual property rights created as a result.
Joint Development of New Technology or Intellectual Property Rights.
11.5 None of the parties shall acquire any proprietary right or interest in any trademark of another party by reason of this Agreement.
Trademarks.
12. TERM AND TERMINATION
12.1 This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue until the later of [****] years or until the [****] on Qualified Processes per month, unless terminated earlier by FoundryCo or AMD pursuant to Section 12.2, but in no event longer than fifteen (15) years after the Effective Date. The parties agree to discuss any renewal of this Agreement at least [****] years prior to the anticipated date of its termination under the first sentence of this Section 12.1.
Term.
 
(a) The parties may terminate this Agreement upon mutual written consent at any time.
(b) This Agreement may be terminated by FoundryCo or AMD if and when a Business Plan Deadlock (as defined in the FoundryCo Funding Agreement) exists and Advanced Technology Investment Company PJSC elects to enter into the Transition Period (as defined in the FoundryCo Funding Agreement).
12.3 Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts (i) to cooperate with AMD to assist AMD in the preparation and execution of a plan to transition the supply of Products to another provider; provided that the period of such transition (the ) shall not last more than twenty four (24) months from such expiration or termination of this Agreement; and (ii) to fulfill purchase orders submitted by AMD during the Transition Period. The pricing for MPU Products during the Transition Period shall be based on pricing specified in Section 7, and the exclusivity provision in Section 2.1(a) shall be waived from the beginning of the Transition Period in order to enable AMD to find and qualify a new manufacturing partner or to otherwise obtain manufacturing capabilities for MPU Products. For the avoidance of doubt, during the Transition Period (i) AMD shall continue to provide MPU Product forecasts pursuant to Section 5.1 and (ii) AMD shall be required to [****] FoundryCo for all [****], as part of the MPU Product pricing calculation in Exhibit A, regardless of the amount of [****] manufactured during the Transition Period.
Termination Assistance.
"Transition Period"
12.4 Upon expiration of the term, the licenses granted herein shall terminate (other than with respect to any Products manufactured or delivered during the Transition Period), and FoundryCo shall have no further delivery obligations other than continuing to manufacture and deliver all confirmed purchase orders accepted prior to the expiration of the term or during the Transition Period. Termination of this Agreement shall not affect any payment rights accrued as of the date of such termination or during the Transition Period. The termination of this Agreement shall not release any party from any liability which at said date of termination has already accrued to another party.
Effect of Termination.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
12.5 Notwithstanding any termination or expiration of this Agreement, Section 2.2 (with respect to the Transition Period), 5.1 (with respect to the Transition Period), Sections 7 (with respect to the Transition Period), 8 (with respect to the Transition Period), 9, 10, 11.2, 11.3, 11.5, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 13 (for the period specified in Section 13.3), 14, and 15 and the applicable Exhibits and definitions shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement.
Survival.
13. CONFIDENTIALITY
13.1 Each party agrees, and agrees to cause its officers, directors, employees, attorneys, accountants, auditors and agents (collectively, ""), to maintain in confidence the Confidential Information it has received from another party, using the same degree of care to preserve the confidentiality of such Confidential Information that the party to whom such Confidential Information is disclosed would use to preserve the confidentiality of its own information of a similar nature and in no event less than a reasonable degree of care. Except as authorized in writing by the affected party, none of the other parties shall at any time use or disclose or permit to be disclosed any Confidential Information of such party to any person, firm, corporation or entity, (a) except as may reasonably be required in connection with the performance of this Agreement by AMD, FoundryCo, USOpCo, or FoundryCo's other permitted designees, as the case may be, and (b) except to the parties' Representatives or Affiliates who are informed by the parties of the confidential nature of the information and are bound to maintain its confidentiality.
Confidential Information.
Representatives
13.2 The obligation not to disclose information under Section 13.1 hereof shall not apply to information that, (a) becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of disclosure made by the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential, (b) was or becomes readily available to the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential on a non-confidential basis, (c) is or becomes available to the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential on a non-confidential basis from a source other than its own files or personnel or the other parties, provided that such source is not known by the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential to be bound by confidentiality agreements with the other parties or by legal, fiduciary or ethical constraints on disclosure of such information, or (d) is required to be disclosed pursuant to a governmental order or decree or other legal requirement (including the requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the listing rules of any applicable securities exchange), provided that the party required to disclose such information shall give the other parties prompt notice thereof prior to such disclosure and, at the request of the other parties, shall cooperate in all reasonable respects in maintaining the confidentiality of such information, including obtaining a protective order or other similar order. Nothing in this Section 13.2 shall limit in any respect any party's ability to disclose information in connection with the enforcement by such party of its rights under this Agreement; provided that the proviso of clause (d) in the immediately preceding sentence shall apply to the party desiring to disclose such information.
Exceptions.
13.3 The obligations of the parties set forth in this Section 13 with respect to the protection of Confidential Information shall remain in effect until the later of (a) five (5) years after the date of disclosure and (b) two (2) years after the termination of this Agreement.
Duration.
13.4 Notwithstanding Section 13.1 above, a party receiving Confidential Information shall not be in breach of its confidentiality obligations under Section 13.1 for the inadvertent use of the disclosing party's Residual Information for the receiving party's own business purposes by personnel who no longer has access to any tangible (including machine-readable) embodiments of the applicable Confidential Information of the disclosing party; provided, however that the foregoing shall not apply to any disclosure of the disclosing party's Confidential Information to any third parties, or any use of such Confidential Information by such third parties. This Section 13.4 shall not be deemed to (a) grant to the receiving party a license under any intellectual property rights (excluding trade secrets) of the disclosing party or (b) authorize any use of the tangible (including machine-readable) embodiments of any Confidential Information of the disclosing party.
Residual Information.
,
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
14. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
14.1 IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OR LOST PROFITS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Damages Waiver.
15. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
15.1 Each party agrees to comply with all applicable state, local and federal laws related to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees to comply with any applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States.
Compliance with Law.
15.2 It is agreed and understood that neither FoundryCo nor AMD is the agent, representative or partner of the other and neither FoundryCo nor AMD has any authority or power to bind or contract in the name of or to create any liability against the other in any way or for any purpose pursuant to this Agreement.
No Agency.
15.3 Each party shall not be liable for any failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement due to a force majeure event during the term of this Agreement or during the Transition Period, including but not limited to an act of God, flood, earthquake, fire, explosion, interruption or defect in the supply of electricity or water, act of government, war, acts of terror, civil commotion, insurrection, embargo, riots, lockouts, inability to obtain raw materials, or labor disputes. Upon the occurrence of a force majeure event, (a) the affected party shall notify the other parties in writing; and (b) the originally scheduled date shall be deemed extended for a period equal to the time lost by reason of the event except that if such force majeure continues for more than twelve (12) consecutive months without the prospect of cure, AMD (if such affected party is FoundryCo, USOpCo or any FoundryCo permitted designee) or FoundryCo (if such affected party is AMD) shall have the option to terminate this Agreement immediately upon written notice. Upon the cessation of a force majeure event, the affected party shall inform the other parties of the date on which that party's obligations under this Agreement shall be reinstated.
Force Majeure.
15.4 All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by an internationally recognized overnight courier service, by facsimile, by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties hereto at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 15.4):
Notices.
(a) if to FoundryCo:
[                                         ]
[                                         ]
Facsimile: [                                                     ]
Attention: [                                                     ]
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
[                            ]
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
(b) if to USOpCo:
[                                         ]
[                                         ]
Facsimile: [                                                         ]
Attention: [                                                         ]
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
[                            ]
(c) if to AMD:
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
One AMD Place
Sunnyvale, CA 94088
Facsimile: [                                                         ]
Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Latham & Watkins LLP
140 Scott Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
 
15.5 If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
15.6 This Agreement, the Master Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
Entire Agreement.
15.7 This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of the other parties hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such parties (provided that USOpCo shall have no such consent right)) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void; provided, however, that FoundryCo may assign or delegate all or some of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to one or more of its subsidiaries, including USOpCo, any other applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity, or any FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity, without any such consent if FoundryCo guarantees the performance of the obligations that have been so assigned or delegated. Subject to the foregoing obligation by FoundryCo to guarantee USOpCo's performance and any other FoundryCo designee's or assignee's performance, the parties acknowledge that FoundryCo will assign or
Assignment.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
delegate all or some of such rights hereunder, directly or indirectly, to USOpCo with respect to U.S. sales activities pursuant to one or more intercompany agreements to be entered into on the date hereof by FoundryCo (with copies provided to AMD). Without limiting FoundryCo's guarantee of performance pursuant to this Section 15.7, the parties intend that FoundryCo shall assign or delegate all such rights and obligations, directly or indirectly, to USOpCo to the extent the retention of such rights or obligations could give rise to income to FoundryCo that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States within the meaning of Section 864 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
15.8 This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with Section 15.9.
Amendment.
15.9 Any party may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of any other party or (b) waive compliance with any of the agreements of the other parties or conditions to such party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of any party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
Waiver.
15.10 Except for the provisions of Section 10 relating to indemnified parties, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and delegates and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person, including any union or any employee or former employee of any party, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
15.11
Governing Law; Dispute Resolution.
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to conflict of law principles.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one party to the other parties, to a senior executive from each party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the LCIA Rules then in effect, as amended by this Section 15.11, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 15.11. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three. Each party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators nominated by the parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal. If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties, and, subject to this Section 15.11, may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the parties. In the event any party subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 15.11; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement, as the case may be (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 15.11).
Interim Relief Proceeding
(d) The parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 15.4. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any party's behalf, such party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a party requiring another party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other party fails to do so, the party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
15.12 Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each party hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting party has no application and is expressly waived.
No Presumption Against Drafting Party.
15.13 This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
WHEREFORE, the parties have signed this Wafer Supply Agreement effective as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
1. The price for Production Wafers containing [****], regardless of [****] or [****], shall be [****], as graphically represented in the attachment to this Exhibit A.
Price for Production Wafers.
2. [****]. The charge for [****] shall be determined as follows:
Charges for
[****] [****] ( [****], "[****]"):
by the following
such
the
(i) [****] during the first [****] full fiscal months after the Effective Date
(ii) [****] during the remainder of fiscal year [****]
(iii) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(iv) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(v) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(vi) [****] during fiscal year [****]
Notwithstanding the foregoing, FoundryCo shall pay [****], [****], [****] and [****], unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
3. The charge for Process Development Wafers shall be determined as follows:
Charges for Process Development Wafers.
a. AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers containing [****]  Pursuant to Section 2 above.
b. Process Engineering Wafers containing [****] (other than [****])  [****].
c. Process Engineering Wafers (not containing [****])  [****].
4. The price for Product Development Wafers containing [****] shall be determined as follows:
Price for Product Development Wafers Containing [MPU Products].
a. For the first [****] after the Effective Date: [****].
b. Thereafter: [****].
5. Should FoundryCo produce products for other customers using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies, FoundryCo shall rebate within a reasonable period of time after the end of the relevant fiscal [****] (starting with the end of [****]) [****], as the [****], of the [****] from the immediately prior [****], as follows: [****]; provided that such rebate amount shall not be less than zero with respect to any relevant [****].
Rebate Amounts.
The parties expect that any products produced for other customers using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies are likely to be based on such technology put in place in prior years. Therefore, the parties agree that any rebate amount paid to AMD as specified above at the [****] of any relevant [****] should be based on the [****] for the immediately prior [****].
As an example, if (a) [****] with respect to [****] is [****], (b) the [****] of wafer starts using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology for AMD (in [****] total wafer starts using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology for any customer) in [****] is [****] (thus, such [****] of wafer starts for third party customers is [****]) and (c) [****] for [****] is $[****], then the rebate amount AMD will receive at the [****] of [****] is ([****]) ($[****]) or $[****].
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
****
[
] Product Pricing Chart
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
Subject to Section 2.1(c) of this Agreement, AMD will continually provide FoundryCo with the opportunity to respond to GPU Product business opportunities and Other Future Product business opportunities. AMD agrees to invite FoundryCo to participate in the RFQ process for any and all GPU Products and Other Future Products that are being developed within AMD (including the first tape-out of such GPU Product or Other Future Product) that could potentially be manufactured at FoundryCo.
AMD agrees to share [****] and [****] with FoundryCo so that FoundryCo can adequately respond to any RFQ requests coming from AMD. This will be accomplished through Quarterly Technical Reviews and Quarterly Business Reviews.
In the process of awarding business [****], AMD will execute a benchmarking process on a product-by-product basis across a number of potential foundry partners (including FoundryCo), covering AMD's technical requirements and design system requirements, along with commercial terms. This benchmarking process can occur at any point in time and may or may not be coincident with the QTR or QBR meetings already occurring. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this benchmarking process shall not be undertaken by AMD with regards to MPU Products.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
As described in Section 5 of this Agreement, AMD will provide to FoundryCo, on a monthly basis, a rolling [****] month wafer forecast for MPU Products, a rolling [****] month wafer forecast for GPU Products, and a rolling [****] month forecast for Embedded Products.
For those Products other than MPU Products for which FoundryCo has received, and agreed to, purchase orders from AMD in accordance with Section 5.5, FoundryCo agrees to provide adequate capacity to produce such Products. In addition, FoundryCo agrees to allocate capacity to AMD as described in Section 2.2 of this Agreement.
For Embedded Products, so long as AMD gives FoundryCo commercially viable volume, FoundryCo agrees to maintain the process and equipment set required to manufacture these products for a period of [****] years, or if earlier, until the termination or expiration of this Agreement. The [****] year duration is measured from the qualification date of each specific Embedded Product and any extensions to the [****] year duration will be negotiated in good faith between AMD and FoundryCo.
For GPU Products, the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand will be calculated on a monthly basis along with the Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand. The Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will then be reviewed monthly as part of the Partnership Committee meeting as well as reviewed quarterly as part of the Quarterly Business Review. The Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will be calculated based on the [****] fiscal months following and including the month that the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage is shared with FoundryCo.
Also for GPU Products, the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped will be calculated on a quarterly basis, along with the Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand. The Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will then be reviewed with FoundryCo as part of the Quarterly Business Review. The Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will be calculated based on the most recent fiscal quarter prior to the date that the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage is shared with FoundryCo.
FoundryCo and AMD jointly agree that if, at any time, either the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage or the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage falls below the designated levels as described in Section 2.1(c) of this Agreement that both companies will use commercially reasonable efforts to restore the percentage levels to their agreed upon values.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
The technical information that AMD may request from FoundryCo may include:
[****]
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
IN GENERAL
Wafers that sort to less than the RMA Threshold may not be scrapped without providing AMD with prior written notice and shall be subject to the procedures set forth in Exhibit F. FoundryCo must, at AMD's option, either credit the amounts paid for the rejected Wafers or replace the defective Wafers as set forth in this Exhibit E or Exhibit F, as applicable.
FoundryCo shall bear all packing, transportation, insurance and other costs incurred in connection with the return and replacement of defective Products. For MPU Products, in no event may FoundryCo charge AMD for replacement Wafers pursuant to this Exhibit E.
For all Wafers whose Yields fall below the RMA Threshold, FoundryCo will provide a credit or will deliver additional Wafers for the affected Products to make up for the shortfall of good Die in a manner to be determined by the Partnership Committee.
EPIDEMIC FAILURE
If an Epidemic Failure occurs, or if FoundryCo or AMD believes it may be necessary to conduct a Recall, the parties will work together to promptly diagnose the problem resulting in an Epidemic Failure or requiring the Recall and establish a corrective action plan to fix the problem with the affected Products and to implement such plan immediately upon the parties' agreement regarding the corrective action plan. If the parties cannot promptly agree upon a corrective action plan, the corrective action plan will be submitted to the Partnership Committee for resolution, or if the Partnership Committee cannot resolve the issue promptly, the parties will escalate the issue for resolution as set forth in Section 3.2 of this Agreement.
In the event of any Recall required due to (i) a manufacturing error, (ii) a breach of this Agreement by FoundryCo, or (iii) negligence or willful misconduct by FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall, subject to the terms of this Agreement: (a) replace the affected Products; or credit amounts previously paid by AMD for the affected Products against future payment obligations of AMD; and (b) reimburse (or at the election of AMD, credit) AMD for the actual costs and expenses incurred by AMD in respect of such recalled Products. Any Recall required because of a negligent act or omission in the additional manufacturing or testing, handling, storage, marketing, promotion, sale or distribution of Products, or as a result of AMD's designs or Specifications, or other breach of this Agreement by AMD shall be at AMD's sole expense.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Product scrapping occurs when the manufacturing of a Product is discontinued before the Product has completed all of its processing steps in the facility.
Product scrapping can be requested by FoundryCo only if the manufacturing process has fallen out of Specification and the delivered Products are expected to not meet the desired performance range or Yield. In this occurrence, the Partnership Committee will review the factory performance excursion and AMD will decide if the Product should be scrapped. If the decision is for such Product to be scrapped, at AMD's request, FoundryCo shall replace the affected Products or credit amounts previously paid by AMD for the affected Products against future payment obligations of AMD. In the event that AMD elects to run Products that are known to be out of Specification through the complete fabrication process, these Products will be taken from FoundryCo "AS IS", without any warranty of any kind, and there will be no RMA or profit-sharing variances performed on the purchase order value of those scrapped Products with FoundryCo.
In addition, AMD can request Product scrapping on a case-by-case basis at AMD's discretion. There is no limit to the number of Products that AMD can request to be scrapped. In the event that AMD requests Products to be scrapped, the Products will immediately be put on-hold at FoundryCo and an assessment will be made of where in the process the Products to be scrapped are located. The location in the process is defined by the last numerical masking step that the Products to be scrapped have been subjected to. For instance, if FoundryCo is running a process with 50 masking steps, and AMD requests a lot of Products to be scrapped, and those Products have been determined to have passed masking step 36 but have not yet passed masking step 37, the location in the process is defined as masking step 36.
In the event that AMD requests FoundryCo to scrap Products, AMD will render partial payment for the scrapped Products to FoundryCo relative to where in the process those scrapped Products are located. Using the example above, if a Product is requested by AMD to be scrapped, and the Product is determined to be at masking step 35 out of total of 50 masking steps in the technology, the Raw Wafer Cost was $200, and the Wafer Price of the Product was $1000, the scrap cost is calculated as
[Wafer Price  Raw Wafer Cost] x [percentage of total mask levels fabricated] + Raw Wafer Cost, which would be calculated as ($1000$200) x (35/50) + $200 which equals $760.
It is AMD's decision whether the scrap cost is rendered to FoundryCo as an adjustment of the original purchase order pricing or through a credit note to FoundryCo, or though some other means.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Process Qualification Requirements will be reviewed on a Product-by-Product basis. In the situation where FoundryCo is making a technology offering that is not yet Qualified (for instance, in the early stages of the development of a new technology node), the parties will discuss and agree upon Specifications, the process technology to be employed, and the allowable variations in each of the following evaluation areas during the development and production phases of that technology or a specific Product.
The areas of evaluation will include at least the following:
1. . The die pricing is calculated from the [****], [****] per [****] ([****]), and [****].
Die pricing
2. . AMD and FoundryCo will agree on a consistent manner in which Target Yield predictions will be made and may also monitor other parameters (such as defect densities) that are used in the calculation of Yield.
Yields
3.
Alignment with 3
rd
party assembly houses
. The manufacturing process performed by FoundryCo will adhere to the applicable sections of the Specifications that address AMD's need to take the Wafers manufactured by FoundryCo through the die assembly process within industry acceptable quality levels.
4. . For each process, FoundryCo must provide the ability for AMD to continuously monitor the position of Wafer orders as they progress through the FoundryCo manufacturing processes. It is expected that, starting in [****], this ability will be rendered from FoundryCo to AMD through a secure internet portal. Until the internet portal is available, FoundryCo will provide Wafer monitoring reports consistent with Exhibit D at a frequency to be agreed upon by the parties.
Wafer-in-process Monitoring
5. . AMD will perform product life tests on Products delivered from FoundryCo and will run tests including but not limited to short-term life, long-term life, and HAST (Highly Accelerated Stress Tests). The successful completion of these product life tests will be a gating item for the release of the Product to volume production at FoundryCo.
Product Life Test Procedures
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
Upon request from AMD, FoundryCo shall provide mask manufacturing services to AMD, including mask data prep, at [****]. As of the Effective Date, FoundryCo shall provide mask data prep services to AMD utilizing hardware and software owned or leased by AMD. The parties agree to secure alternative hardware and software going forward. AMD acknowledges that for each new technology, mask manufacturing research and development and mask data prep may require [****] that will be deemed to be [****] pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Any additional mask sets required specifically (a) for FoundryCo in connection with its technology learning, (b) for process changes introduced by FoundryCo, (c) for replacements by FoundryCo to account for normal wear and tear or (d) to enable FoundryCo to manufacture a particular Product at more than one FoundryCo location, will be at FoundryCo's expense. AMD acknowledges that for the purpose of MPU Product pricing, [****] may become part of the [****].
Any new masks required by (a) design or Specification changes, (b) design learning desired by AMD, (c) process changes requested by AMD or (d) second sourcing requested by AMD or its customers will be paid by AMD at [****].
AMD and FoundryCo shall mutually agree on mask suppliers for the purpose of meeting all the required technical criteria at reasonable cost and fulfilling the [****] obligations in the Advanced Mask Technology Center. The parties acknowledge that for initial designs at each new technology node or at each process within a technology node, AMD may request, and FoundryCo may reasonably consider, early adopter incentives that may include discounted engineering, prototyping or production mask sets to AMD.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 


