FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20081007060720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
A copy of the investor roadshow slides (the "") used by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("") in connection with the announcement of the creation of a manufacturing joint venture by AMD and Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Presentation
AMD
Where You Can Find Additional Information
AMD will file a proxy statement pursuant to which AMD's board of directors will solicit proxies in connection with seeking AMD stockholder approval of the issuance of AMD shares and warrants pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""). Security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement, when AMD files it with the SEC in the coming weeks, and other documents filed by AMD with the SEC at the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov. The proxy statement and other documents may also be obtained free of charge by contacting AMD Investor Relations at or by telephone: (408) 749-4000.
SEC
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement when it becomes available and other relevant documents filed with the SEC because they will contain important information.
investor.relations@amd.com
AMD and its executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from AMD's stockholders with respect to the issuance of AMD shares and warrants pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement. Information regarding such executive officers and directors is included in AMD's Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed with the SEC on March 14, 2008, which is available free of charge at the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov and by contacting AMD Investor Relations at or by telephone: (408) 749-4000. Certain executive officers and directors of AMD have interests in the transaction that may differ from the interests of AMD stockholders generally. These interests will be described in the proxy statement when AMD files it with the SEC in the coming weeks.
investor.relations@amd.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index.
 



