FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20080417162304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On April 17, 2008, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for the quarter ended March 29, 2008 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP operating loss and adjusted EBITDA.
To derive non-GAAP net loss, the Company excluded certain charges consisting of acquisition charges related to its acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc. ("ATI") which closed on October 24, 2006, the tax benefit from ATI acquisition-related charges and charges related to the impairment of the Company's investment in Spansion Inc. To derive non-GAAP operating loss, the Company excluded certain ATI acquisition-related charges. Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based of the following:
: As a result of the Company's annual goodwill impairment analysis and the analysis of impairment on acquired intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company concluded that a portion of their carrying values were impaired and the charge was taken in the fourth quarter of 2007. The Company believes these charges are not indicative of ongoing performance and consequently excluded the effect of these charges from its fourth quarter of 2007 GAAP operating loss and its fourth quarter of 2007 GAAP net loss.
Impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. Other ATI acquisition-related charges primarily consist of the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, integration charges incurred in connection with integrating the two companies and, in the first quarter of 2007, the cost of fair value adjustment of acquired inventory. These other ATI acquisition-related charges have been excluded to derive non-GAAP operating loss. To derive non-GAAP net loss, the Company excluded these other ATI acquisition-related charges as well as the tax benefit from these charges.
Other ATI acquisition-related charges
The investment impairment charge relates to the other than temporary impairment charge that the Company recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 on its investment in Spansion Inc. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net loss as it is not indicative of ongoing performance.
Spansion Inc. investment impairment charge:
The Company believes that the exclusion of these amounts enables investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the financial schedules to the earnings release. In the financial schedules, Adjusted EBITDA was determined by adjusting net loss for depreciation and amortization, amortization of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets, interest expense and taxes.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures.
The Company provided non-GAAP net loss in the press release to reflect the results without ATI acquisition-related charges, the tax benefit from the ATI acquisition-related charges and the charge related to the Spansion investment impairment. The Company provided non-GAAP operating loss in the press release to reflect the results without ATI acquisition-related charges. The Company's management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting current and historical results in a form that makes it easier to compare current period operating results with historical operating results.
The Company calculated and communicated Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of interest to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP operating measure of net income or U.S. GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
AMD NEWS RELEASE
 
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today reported first quarter 2008 revenue of $1.505 billion, a net loss of $358 million, or $0.59 per share, and an operating loss of $264 million. These results include an impact of $50 million, or $0.08 per share, from ATI acquisition-related charges. First quarter revenue decreased 15 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 and increased 22 percent compared to the first quarter of 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, AMD reported revenue of $1.770 billion, a net loss of $1.772 billion, and an operating loss of $1.678 billion. In the first quarter of 2007, AMD reported revenue of $1.233 billion, a net loss $611 million, and an operating loss of $504 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  April 17, 2008 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Net Loss
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operati
ng Loss to
Non-GAAP Operating Loss
1
 
"A seasonally weak first quarter was amplified by a challenging economic environment for consumers and lower than expected revenues of previous generation products, resulting in lower than expected revenues in all business segments. However,
 
we are encouraged by the market acceptance of our Quad-Core AMD Opteron server processors as well as our new chipset and graphics offerings," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's Chief Financial officer. "We remain committed to achieve operating profitability in the second half of the year, driven by our portfolio of new products and platforms and aggressive restructuring programs."
First quarter 2008 gross margin was 42 percent compared to 44 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 28 percent in the first quarter of 2007. The decrease from the prior quarter was primarily due to decreased microprocessor unit shipments.
Segment Information
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
In the seasonally down second quarter, AMD expects revenue to decrease in line with seasonality. As previously disclosed, AMD expects to record a restructuring charge in the second quarter of 2008.
 
Additional Quarterly Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at www.amd.com. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing, graphics and consumer electronics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit www.amd.com.
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning revenue for the second quarter of 2008, profitability for the second half of 2008 driven by new products and platforms, restructuring programs, and availability of platforms containing the Quad-Core AMD Opteron processor, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; the company's cost containment efforts will not be effective; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for its products; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company's competitors, customers and suppliers may take actions that will negate the anticipated benefits of the company's acquisition of ATI; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the second quarter of 2008 and beyond; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way, consistent with planned capital expenditures; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2007.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Phenom and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, FireGL and Radeon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Unaudited)
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
 
 
 
 
ATI acquisition-related charges:
 
Employee stock-based compensation expense:
 
(5) Reconciliation of Net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA*
 
 


