FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20080717163346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K.
On July 17, 2008, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended June 28, 2008 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures of non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP operating loss, non-GAAP gross margin and adjusted EBITDA.
To derive non-GAAP net loss for the second fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company excluded the loss from discontinued operations, the gain from the sale of certain 200mm equipment, marketable securities' impairment charges, the amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Company's acquisition of ATI Technologies, Inc. ("ATI") which closed on October 24, 2006, and certain restructuring charges. To derive non-GAAP net loss for the second fiscal quarter of 2007, the Company excluded the loss from discontinued operations, the amortization of acquired intangible assets and integration charges, other charges and debt issuance charges. To derive non-GAAP net loss for the first fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company excluded the loss from discontinued operations and the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating loss for the second fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company excluded the gain from the sale of certain 200mm equipment, the amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Company's acquisition of ATI, and certain restructuring charges. To derive non-GAAP operating loss for the second fiscal quarter of 2007, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and integration charges related to the Company's acquisition of ATI and other charges. To derive non-GAAP operating loss for the first fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Company's acquisition of ATI.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company excluded the gain from the sale of certain 200mm equipment. To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2007, the Company excluded certain charges.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: As part of the Company's strategy of evaluating the viability of its non-core business, the Company determined that its Handheld and DTV business units are not directly aligned with its computing and graphics opportunities. Therefore, the Company has decided to divest these business units and classify them as discontinued operations in the financial statements presented.
Discontinued operations
 
: The Company recognized a gain of $193 million in connection with sales of certain 200mm wafer fabrication tools which had a materially favorable impact on the Company's gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2008. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net loss, operating loss and gross margin as it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain on sale of certain 200mm equipment
: These charges consist of a $24 million charge for the Company's investment in Spansion Inc. and a $12 million charge related to the Company's holdings in auction-rate securities. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net loss as it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Marketable securities' impairment charges
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These primarily consisted of the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and charges incurred in connection with integrating the two companies. In addition, for the second fiscal quarter of 2007, the Company excluded certain other charges, which consist of severance charges related to costs incurred for workforce reductions as a result of the Company's cost cutting efforts. The Company believes that the exclusion of these amounts enables investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets, integration and other charges
: The restructuring charges relate to a restructuring plan implemented by the Company during the second fiscal quarter of 2008 to reduce its breakeven point. The plan primarily involves the termination of employees which commenced during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 and is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2008. These restructuring charges represent primarily employee severance payments and also include costs related to the termination of a contract. The Company excluded the effect of this item from GAAP net loss and operating loss as it is not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges
: These charges from the second fiscal quarter of 2007 primarily relate to the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance fees upon redemption of certain Company debt. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net loss as it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Debt issuance charges
The Company's management believes this non-GAAP presentation will aid investors by presenting current and historical results in a form that makes it easier to compare current period operating results with historical operating results.
 
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the financial schedules to the earnings release. In the financial schedules, Adjusted EBITDA was determined by adjusting loss from continuing operations for depreciation and amortization, amortization of acquired intangible assets, interest expense and taxes.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures.
The Company calculated and communicated Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP operating measure of net income or U.S. GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
AMD NEWS RELEASE
 
AMD (NYSE:AMD) today reported second quarter 2008 revenue from continuing operations of $1.349 billion, a seven percent decrease compared to the first quarter of 2008 and a three percent increase compared to the second quarter of 2007. As part of its previously communicated review of its non-core businesses, AMD decided to divest its Handheld and DTV product businesses, and therefore is classifying them as discontinued operations
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 17, 2008 
1
for financial reporting.
In the second quarter of 2008, AMD reported a net loss of $1.189 billion, or $1.96 per share. For continuing operations, the second quarter loss was $269 million, or $0.44 per share, and the operating loss was $143 million. The results for continuing operations include a net favorable impact of $97 million, or $0.16 per share as described in the table below. Loss from discontinued operations was $920 million, or $1.52 a share, including asset impairment charges of $876 million, or $1.44 a share.
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Loss
2
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Loss
2
 
In the first quarter of 2008 AMD had revenue from continuing operations of $1.456 billion, a net loss of $358 million, a loss from continuing operations of $308 million and an operating loss of $214 million. In the second quarter of 2007 AMD had revenue from continuing operations of $1.309 billion, a net loss of $600 million, a loss from continuing operations of $531 million and an operating loss of $396 million.
"While we had a disappointing quarter financially, customer adoption of our recently introduced microprocessor and graphics products and platform offerings is strong, and we see increasing momentum across our businesses," said Robert J. Rivet, AMD's chief financial officer. "In the face of challenging macroeconomic conditions, we remain committed to achieving operating profitability in the second half of the year based on the continued ramp of new products, increased market penetration of our differentiated solutions, and continued actions designed to reduce our breakeven point."
Second quarter 2008 gross margin was 52 percent. Excluding the positive impact associated with the sale of 200mm manufacturing equipment, second quarter 2008 gross margin was 37 percent, compared to 41 percent in the first quarter of 2008 and 34 percent in the second quarter of 2007.
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
2
 
 
 
Segment Information
 
Current Outlook
AMD's Current Outlook does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after July 17. AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations of its continuing operations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
In the seasonally up third quarter, AMD expects revenue to increase in line with seasonality.
Additional Quarterly Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
www.amd.com
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is a leading global provider of innovative processing solutions in the computing and graphics markets. AMD is dedicated to driving open innovation, choice and industry growth by delivering superior customer-centric solutions that empower consumers and businesses worldwide. For more information, visit .
www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning revenue for the third quarter of 2008, operating profitability for the second half of 2008, restructuring programs, and the intended divestiture of AMD's Handheld and DTV product businesses, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are
 
 
based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; global business and economic conditions will worsen, resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the third quarter of 2008 and beyond; the company's cost containment efforts will not be effective; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way, consistent with planned capital expenditures; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; the company will be unable to divest its Handheld or DTV product businesses in the expected timeframe, if at all, or in a manner contemplated by the company; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2008.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Phenom and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, FireGL and Radeon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


