FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20081029124728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), previously reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 29, 2008, the Company is party to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated August 25, 2008, by and among the Company, Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (""), and Broadcom International Limited, an exempted company organized and existing under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("" and together with Broadcom and the Company, the "").
Company
Broadcom
BIL
Parties
On October 27, 2008, the Parties executed Amendment No. 1 to the Asset Purchase Agreement (the "" and the Asset Purchase Agreement as so amended, the ""), pursuant to which the aggregate cash purchase price payable by Broadcom to the Company was reduced from $192.8 million to $141.5 million, less an adjustment for certain employee-related expenses, and the dollar amount of the indemnification escrow deposit was reduced from $19 million to $14 million. As a result of this purchase price reduction, the Company recorded an additional loss from the sale of approximately $51 million which is in addition to the amount previously disclosed in the Company's press release furnished as an exhibit on the Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed by the Company on October 16, 2008. Such loss will be reflected in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 27, 2008.
Amendment
Amended Asset Purchase Agreement
Pursuant to the Amendment, certain representations, warranties, and agreements were made relating to specified intellectual property.
The foregoing is a summary of the terms of the Amendment and does not purport to summarize or include all terms relating to the Amendment. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which will be filed as a exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 27, 2008.
 
On October 27, 2008, the Company completed the sale of assets related to the Company's digital television business (the "") to Broadcom and BIL. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Amended Asset Purchase Agreement, as consideration for the DTV Assets, Broadcom paid to the Company $141.5 million in cash, less an adjustment for certain employee-related expenses. $14 million of the purchase price was deposited in escrow for a period of 18 months following the closing to satisfy any amount owed by the Company to Broadcom pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Amended Asset Purchase Agreement. An additional $15 million of the purchase price was deposited in escrow to be held until certain audited 2008 financial statements for the acquired business have been delivered to Broadcom; such escrow is subject to forfeiture or reduction in the event of non-delivery or delay in delivery beyond certain agreed time periods.
DTV Assets
Additional details regarding the transaction are provided in Item 1.01 above and the related Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed by the Company on August 29, 2008.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 29, 2007, and December 31, 2006, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 28, 2008, and the Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or the financial position that would have been achieved had the sale been consummated as of the dates indicated or of the results that may be obtained in the future. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes should be read together with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes as of and for the year ended December 29, 2007, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2007, as well as in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes as of and for the six months ended June 28, 2008, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended June 28, 2008.
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are being filed to satisfy the requirements under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule 11-01 and Rule 11-02, with respect to the disposition of the DTV Assets.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared to reflect the October 27, 2008 sale of certain assets of the Company's digital television business (DTV) to Broadcom Corporation as described in Item 2.01 of this Current Report.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 31, 2006 are based on the Company's historical condensed consolidated statements of operations, and give effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred on December 26, 2005, the first day of fiscal 2006. The Company purchased DTV as part of the acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. on October 25, 2006. Since DTV was purchased on October 25, 2006, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes the results of operations for DTV for the period October 26, 2006 through December 31, 2006. For the six months ended June 28, 2008, DTV's and the Company's Hand-held Products Business (Hand-held) results of operations were presented as discontinued operations in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 28, 2008, in accordance with FASB Statement No. 144, ; therefore, an unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations is not necessary for that period. Also, these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements present the Hand-held business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 28, 2008 is based on the Company's historical balance sheet as of that date, and gives effect to the disposition transaction as if it had occurred on June 28, 2008. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations are based on the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes and do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items or changes in operating strategies arising as a result of the disposition. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements include no assumptions regarding the use of proceeds from the sale of DTV, which are presented as additional cash on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Accordingly, the actual effect of the sale, due to this and other factors, could differ from the pro forma adjustments presented herein. However, management believes that the assumptions used and the adjustments made are reasonable under the circumstances and given the information available.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or the financial position that would have been achieved had the sale been consummated as of the dates indicated or of the results that may be obtained in the future. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes should be read together with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes as of and for the year ended December 29, 2007, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2007, as well as in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes as of and for the period ended June 28, 2008, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended June 28, 2008.
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
For the year ended December 29, 2007
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2006
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
As of June 28, 2008
(in millions, except par value amounts)
 
 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


