FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20091008143140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 17, 2009, Thomas Seifert was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the ""), effective October 12, 2009 (the ""). Pursuant to the terms of the offer letter dated as of September 1, 2009, between Mr. Seifert and the Company (the ""), Mr. Seifert's annual base salary will be $525,000. Mr. Seifert is also eligible for an annual performance bonus under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan in a target amount of 150% of his base salary, to be payable upon his achievement of certain performance goals and objectives to be determined by the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Seifert will also receive an option to purchase 250,000 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of the grant. The Shares will vest over a 36-month period from date of grant: 33.3% on November 15, 2010 and then 8.3% every three months over the next 24 months, assuming Mr. Seifert's continuous active service with the Company. In addition, Mr. Seifert will be granted 125,000 restricted stock units (the ""). Notwithstanding the vesting information contained in the Offer Letter, the RSUs will vest 33.3% on each of November 9, 2010, November 9, 2011 and November 9, 2012, assuming Mr. Seifert's continuous active service with the Company.
Company
Effective Date
Offer Letter
Shares
RSUs
Pursuant to a relocation expenses agreement dated as of September 3, 2009, between Mr. Seifert and the Company (the ""), and a sign-on bonus agreement dated as of September 1, 2009, between Mr. Seifert and the Company (the ""), the Company will reimburse Mr. Seifert for certain relocation expenses incurred by Mr. Seifert and pay Mr. Seifert a one-time sign-on bonus of $150,000 in connection with his employment with the Company. In the event Mr. Seifert's employment with the Company is terminated within 13 months of the Effective Date, Mr. Seifert will repay all such relocation expenses and the sign-on bonus to the Company. In the event Mr. Seifert's employment with the Company is terminated after 13 months of the Effective Date but less than 24 months after the Effective Date, Mr. Seifert will repay all such relocation expenses to the Company and the sign-on bonus, less 8.33% of such relocation expenses and sign-on bonus for each full month of employment completed after the 12
Relocation Expenses Agreement
Sign-On Bonus Agreement
th
month of employment.
Prior to joining the Company and from October 2008, Mr. Seifert served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Qimonda AG. From April 2006 to October 2008, Mr. Seifert served as Chief Operating Officer of Qimonda AG, and from 2001 to April 2006, Mr. Seifert served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Infineon AG.
Copies of the Offer Letter, Relocation Expenses Agreement and Sign-On Bonus Agreement are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing descriptions of the Offer Letter, Relocation Expenses Agreement and Sign-On Bonus Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the agreements.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Seifert's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Personal and Confidential
August 31, 2009
Thomas Seifert
[Address]
Dear Thomas,
We are pleased to extend to you this offer of employment to join (AMD), in the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, reporting to Dirk Meyer, Chief Executive Officer. If accepted, under this offer you would be located at our Lonestar campus corporate offices in Austin, Texas beginning on Monday, October 5, 2009.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Your initial bi-weekly salary will be $20,192.31 ($525,000 annualized base salary). AMD has 26 bi-weekly pay periods per year.
You will receive a one-time sign-on bonus of $150,000, less deductions as required by law. If you leave AMD within of your hire date, you will be required to reimburse to AMD all or a prorated amount of the bonus according to the terms and conditions of the enclosed Sign-On Bonus Agreement. You must sign and date the enclosed Sign-On Bonus Agreement, and return the original along with the original of this executed offer letter.
two years
You will also be eligible to participate in a bonus plan that will be applicable to you, and is currently under development, in accordance with the final terms and conditions of that bonus plan. Your initial 2009 target bonus opportunity will be 150% of your base salary. Any amount which you may earn under the bonus plan between your hire date and the end of the performance period will be pro-rated for the number of months you actually participate during this period. Target bonus opportunities are subject to review and may be adjusted, generally each plan year. Your participation will be subject to the terms and conditions of the bonus plan.
Further, you will be granted an option to purchase 250,000 shares of AMD common stock at an exercise price equal to the closing price of AMD stock on the date of the grant. The shares will vest over a 36 month period from date of grant: 33.3% after approximately 12 months from date of grant, and then 8.3% every three months over the next 24 months, assuming continuous active service. Please note that the stock option grant is an opportunity provided by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. that is separate from and in addition to your regular compensation, with rights and obligations governed by the applicable equity incentive plan documents. The Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Board of Directors has already approved this grant for you contingent upon your acceptance of this offer.
Further, subject to approval by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.'s Board of Directors, you will be granted 125,000 restricted stock units. The units will vest over a 39 month period from date of grant: 33.3% after approximately 15 months from date of grant, and then 33.3% every 12 months over the next 24 months, assuming continuous active service. Please note that the restricted stock unit grant is an opportunity provided by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. that is separate from and in addition to your regular compensation, with rights and obligations governed by the applicable equity plan documents.
You will be considered for an equity grant in May 2010 or the closest grant date following, and contingent upon, the approval of the compensation committee of the Board of Directors.
To assist you with your relocation, AMD is offering you executive relocation benefits, as explained in and in accordance with the enclosed Relocation Guidelines and Expenses Agreement. Please sign, initial, and date the enclosed Relocation Guidelines and Expenses Agreement. Return the original document along with the original executed Offer letter. Your move will be coordinated by the AMD Corporate Relocation Department. Refer to the Relocation Guidelines and Expenses Agreement for contact information.
Personal and Confidential
August 31, 2009
Thomas Seifert
Page 2 of 3
You will also be offered the benefit of AMD's Change of Control Agreement. The Company developed the enclosed agreement for certain key executives such as you, to provide you with benefits in the event there is a change of control of the Company. The goal of this type of agreement is to enable you to remain focused and dedicated even in uncertain times. The Change of Control Agreement conforms to the format approved by AMD's Compensation Committee.
AMD makes available to its employees a comprehensive benefits program including medical, dental, life and disability coverage, 401(k) retirement savings plan, and executive physical.
This offer is contingent upon you successfully passing a background investigation to be performed by our Security Investigations Department. As lawfully permitted, this background investigation includes an investigation of criminal records, previous employment history and references, and educational background. If applicable, this offer is also contingent on AMD successfully obtaining an export license for you in accordance with government regulations. Please protect your current employment until the background check and export license processes are complete.
This offer is contingent upon meeting the conditions listed below by your start date:
 
This offer is further contingent upon your signing and returning the enclosed AMD Agreement and completing all new employee orientation requirements (including acknowledging AMD's Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct). Your employment with AMD is "at-will," which means that you or AMD may terminate it at any time, with or without cause or notice.
The terms in this letter accurately and completely describe your employment agreement with AMD, and supersede any other oral or written agreements or promises made to you.
If this offer is agreeable to you, please accept it by initialing each page, signing your name below and returning the original signed and dated document to me in the enclosed envelope.
We look forward to having you as a member of our team and feel our association will be mutually rewarding. The dedication, creative drive and loyalty of our employees have enabled us to impact the world through our technological advances in the microelectronics field. We are confident that you possess these qualities and that your contributions to AMD will be significant.
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.
We look forward to you joining the AMD team!
 
Personal and Confidential
August 31, 2009
Thomas Seifert
Page 3 of 3
Agreed to and accepted by:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Relocation Expenses Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into by and between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") and ("Employee") (collectively, the "Parties").
Thomas Seifert
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
This Sign-On Bonus Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into by and between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (including its affiliated companies) ("AMD") and ("Candidate") (collectively, the "Parties").
Thomas Seifert
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
Drew Prairie
AMD Public Relations
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Contact:
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today announced the appointment of Thomas Seifert as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Seifert, 46, will report to , AMD president and chief executive officer, and will have responsibility for leading the company's global financial organization. Seifert succeeds , who was previously promoted to chief operations and administrative officer.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Oct. 8, 2009 
Dirk Meyer
Robert Rivet
"Thomas is a talented industry veteran with a wealth of knowledge and experience managing the operations and finances of companies in the most difficult and competitive sectors of the semiconductor industry," said Meyer. "This knowledge and experience will enable him to further strengthen AMD's financial foundation and help accelerate our transformation into a product design and marketing leader."
Seifert joins AMD from Qimonda, where he most recently was a member of the Management Board as well as chief operating officer and chief financial officer. Previously, Seifert was senior vice president and general manager of the Wireline Business Group at Infineon AG.
Seifert received a bachelor's degree from Friedrich Alexander University, a master's degree in economics from Wayne State University, and a master's degree in business administration from Friedrich Alexander University.
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is an innovative technology company dedicated to collaborating with customers and technology partners to ignite the next generation of computing and graphics solutions at work, home and play. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


