FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20090305153342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2008, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") entered into a Master Transaction Agreement (as amended on December 5, 2008, the "") with Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly owned by the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi (""), and West Coast Hitech L.P., an exempted limited partnership organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""), acting through its general partner, West Coast Hitech G.P., Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, pursuant to which ATIC and the Company agreed to form a manufacturing joint venture, The Foundry Company, an exempted company to be incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). The Foundry Company will manufacture semiconductor products and will provide certain foundry services to the Company and in the future to other third-party customers. On March 4, 2009, The Foundry Company changed its name to "GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc."
Company
Master Transaction Agreement
ATIC
WCH
The Foundry Company
On March 2, 2009, the Company, ATIC and WCH consummated the transactions contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement (the ""). At the Closing, the Company contributed certain assets and liabilities to The Foundry Company, including, among other things, shares of the groups of German subsidiaries owning Fab 30/38 and Fab 36 (the ""), certain manufacturing assets, owned real property, tangible personal property, employees, inventories, books and records, a portion of the Company's patent portfolio and intellectual property and technology, rights under certain material contracts and authorizations necessary for The Foundry Company to carry on its business, in exchange for Foundry Company securities, consisting of one Class A Ordinary Share, 1,090,950 Class A Preferred Shares and 700,000 Class B Preferred Shares, and the assumption of certain liabilities by The Foundry Company. ATIC contributed $1.4 billion of cash to The Foundry Company in exchange for Foundry Company securities, consisting of one Class A Ordinary Share, 218,190 Class A Preferred Shares, 172,760 Class B Preferred Shares, $201,810,000 aggregate principal amount of Class A Subordinated Convertible Notes and $807,240,000 aggregate principal amount of Class B Subordinated Convertible Notes, and transferred $700 million of cash to the Company in exchange for the transfer by the Company of 700,000 Class B Preferred Shares of The Foundry Company to ATIC.
Closing
Dresden Subsidiaries
At the Closing, the Company also issued to WCH, for an aggregate purchase price of $124,700,000, 58 million shares of the Company's common stock (the "") and warrants to purchase 35 million shares of the Company's common stock (the "") at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. The Warrants are exercisable after the earlier of (i) public ground-breaking of The Foundry Company's planned manufacturing facility in New York and (ii) March 2, 2011, and the Warrants expire on March 2, 2019. In the Master Transaction Agreement, WCH represented to the Company that WCH was an "accredited investor" as such term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the Company has relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act from the registration requirements of the Securities Act with respect to the sale and issuance of the Shares and the Warrants to WCH.
Shares
Warrants
Securities Act
In connection with the Closing, the terms of the 700,000,000 Term Loan Facility Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2004, as amended by amendment agreements dated October 10, 2006 and February 25, 2009, among AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG (""), certain affiliates of AMD Fab 36 KG (collectively, the ""), the banks and financial institutions party thereto as Mandated Lead Arrangers or Lenders, Dresdner Bank AG in Berlin, as Security Agent and Reporting Agent, and Dresdner Bank AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg, as Facility Agent (collectively, the "") and related agreements were amended to allow for the transfer of the Fab 36 German Companies (including the Facility Agreement and related agreements and the indebtedness outstanding thereunder) to The Foundry Company, whose financial results will continue to be consolidated in the Company's financial statements.
AMD Fab 36 KG
Fab 36 German Companies
Facility Agreement
In connection with the Closing, the Company also amended the terms of its Guarantee Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2004, as amended by amendment agreements dated October 10, 2006 and February 25, 2009, among the Company and The Foundry Company, as guarantors, AMD Fab 36 KG, as Borrower, Dresdner Bank AG in Berlin, as Security Agent, Dresdner Bank AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg, as Facility Agent, and AMD Netherlands Technologies BV, a subsidiary of The Foundry Company (the ""). Pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, the Company and The Foundry Company are joint guarantors, including with respect to the amounts payable by AMD Fab 36 KG under the Facility Agreement and the related agreements. However, if the Company is called upon to make any payments under the Guarantee Agreement, The Foundry Company has separately agreed to indemnify the Company for the full amount of such payments. The Company must continue to comply with the covenants set forth in the Guarantee Agreement, including specified adjusted tangible net worth and EBITDA financial covenants if group consolidated cash declines below the following amounts:
Guarantee Agreement
 
Pursuant to the Facility Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, for as long as the Company consolidates the operations of The Foundry Company for financial reporting purposes, any group consolidated cash requirements will be considered on a consolidated basis, including both the Company's and The Foundry Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
At the Closing, the Company, ATIC and The Foundry Company also entered into a Shareholders' Agreement (the ""), a Funding Agreement (the ""), and a Wafer Supply Agreement (the ""), the material terms of each of which are summarized below.
Shareholders' Agreement
Funding Agreement
Wafer Supply Agreement
Shareholders' Agreement
The Shareholders' Agreement sets forth the rights and obligations of the Company and ATIC as shareholders of The Foundry Company. The initial Foundry Company board of directors (the "") consists of eight directors, and the Company and ATIC each designated four directors for nomination. The number of directors a Foundry Company shareholder may designate may decrease in the future according to the percentage of The Foundry Company shares it owns on a fully diluted basis. Doug Grose is the initial Foundry Company Chief Executive Officer and Bruce McDougall is the initial Foundry Company Chief Financial Officer. Hector de J. Ruiz will not be a director of The Foundry Company but will serve as Chairman of the Foundry Company Board.
Foundry Company Board
Pursuant to the Shareholders' Agreement, The Foundry Company is not allowed to take certain corporate actions without unanimous Foundry Company Board approval, including, among other things: (i) entering into any transaction resulting in a change of control of The Foundry Company or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of The Foundry Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) approving any annual business plan or any material amendment, modification or revision of any annual business plan; (iii) authorizing, issuing, selling, acquiring, converting, repurchasing or redeeming any Foundry Company shares or other equity interest not reflected in the annual business plan, its Articles of Association or any incentive plan; (iv) making certain capital expenditures not reflected in the annual business plan; (v) incurring indebtedness over a specified level; and (vi) prosecuting, commencing or settling litigation in excess of $10 million. The Shareholders' Agreement also sets forth procedures by which any deadlock with respect to matters requiring Foundry Company Board approval are to be resolved, which allows a shareholder to break specified Foundry Company Board deadlocks if it owns more than 75% or, for certain additional matters, 90% of The Foundry Company shares on a fully diluted basis.
The Shareholders' Agreement restricts the ability of each shareholder to sell any Foundry Company securities, subject to certain exceptions, including the sale of specified percentages of a shareholder's fully diluted shares of The Foundry Company in the event of a Foundry Company initial public offering. In the event of a change of control of the Company without ATIC's prior written consent, among other things, all transfer restrictions with respect to Foundry Company securities held by ATIC will cease and ATIC will have the right to require any acquirer of the Company to guarantee all of the Company's obligations under the transaction documents. If a change of control of the Company occurs within two years of Closing, ATIC will have the right to put any or all of the Foundry Company securities (valued at their fair market value) held by ATIC and its permitted transferees to the Company in exchange for cash, or if a change of control of the Company occurs after a specified event, ATIC will have the option to purchase in cash any or all of The Foundry Company securities (valued at their fair market value) held by the Company and its permitted transferees.
The Shareholders' Agreement may be terminated (i) upon dissolution of The Foundry Company, (ii) by written agreement of all parties possessing rights under the Shareholders' Agreement, (iii) at the election of a shareholder upon a bankruptcy event of the other shareholder, or (iv) for any shareholder, at such time the shareholder ceases to own any Foundry Company securities.
Funding Agreement
The Funding Agreement provides for the future funding of The Foundry Company and governs the terms and conditions under which ATIC is obligated to provide such funding. Pursuant to the Funding Agreement, ATIC has committed to additional equity funding of a minimum of $3.6 billion and up to $6.0 billion over the next five years. The Company has the right, but not the obligation, to provide additional future capital to the Foundry Company in an amount pro rata to the Company's interest in the fully converted common stock of The Foundry Company.
At each equity funding, the equity securities to be issued by The Foundry Company will consist of 20% of Class A Preferred Shares and 80% of Class B Preferred Shares. The aggregate amount of equity funding to be provided by the shareholders in any fiscal year depends on the time period of such funding (Phase I, II or III) and the amounts set forth in the five-year capital plan of The Foundry Company. The Phases are defined as follows:
 
 
 
The Foundry Company is required to obtain specified third-party debt in any given fiscal year, as set forth in the five-year capital plan. To the extent that The Foundry Company obtains more than the specified amount of third-party debt, ATIC is able to reduce its funding commitment accordingly. To the extent that The Foundry Company is not able to obtain the full amount of third-party debt, ATIC is not obligated to make up the difference. To the extent the Company chooses not to participate in an equity financing of The Foundry Company, ATIC is obligated to purchase such Foundry Company securities in such equity financing, subject to ATIC's funding commitments under the Funding Agreement.
ATIC's obligations to provide funding are subject to certain conditions, including the accuracy of The Foundry Company's representations and warranties in the Funding Agreement, the absence of a material adverse effect on The Foundry Company or the Company and the absence of a material breach or default by The Foundry Company or the Company under the provisions of any transaction document. There are additional funding conditions for each of the Phases.
The Funding Agreement will terminate upon the termination of a transition period beginning on the date of notice of ATIC's election to have The Foundry Company enter into such a period if certain terms and conditions contained in the Funding Agreement are satisfied and ending on the later of (A) 12 months after such date and (B) the last day of the fiscal year ending in 2013.
Wafer Supply Agreement
The Wafer Supply Agreement governs the terms by which the Company will purchase products manufactured by The Foundry Company. Pursuant to the Wafer Supply Agreement, the Company will, subject to limited exceptions, purchase all of its microprocessor unit ("") product requirements from The Foundry Company. If the Company acquires a third-party business that manufactures MPU products, the Company will have up to two years to transition the manufacture of such MPU products to The Foundry Company. In addition, once The Foundry Company establishes a 32nm-qualified process, the Company will purchase from Foundry Company sales entities, where competitive, specified percentages of its graphics processor unit ("") requirements at all process nodes, which percentages will increase linearly over a five-year period. At the Company's request, The Foundry Company will also provide sort services to the Company on a product-by-product basis.
MPU
GPU
The Company will provide The Foundry Company with product forecasts of its MPU and GPU product requirements. The price for MPU products is related to the percentage of the Company's MPU-specific total cost of goods sold. The price for GPU products will be determined by the parties when The Foundry Company is able to begin manufacturing GPU products for the Company.
The Wafer Supply Agreement will be in effect no longer than May 2, 2024. The Wafer Supply Agreement may also be terminated if and when a business plan deadlock exists and ATIC elects to enter into a transition period pursuant to the Funding Agreement. The Foundry Company will agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to assist the Company to transition the supply of products to another provider, and continue to fulfill purchase orders for up to two years following the termination or expiration of the Wafer Supply Agreement. During such transition period, pricing for MPU products will remain as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, but the Company's purchase commitments to The Foundry Company will no longer apply.
The foregoing summaries of the Facility Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Shareholders' Agreement, the Funding Agreement and the Wafer Supply Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Facility Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Shareholders' Agreement, the Funding Agreement and the Wafer Supply Agreement attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the Closing, on March 2, 2009, Hector de J. Ruiz resigned from the Company's board of directors and the remaining members of the Company's board of directors appointed Waleed Ahmed Al Mokarrab Al Muhairi, who is an affiliate of WCH and ATIC, to fill the vacancy created by Mr. Ruiz's resignation. Mr. Al Muhairi was appointed to the Company's board of directors pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Master Transaction Agreement, which provides that until such time as WCH and its permitted transferees beneficially own, in the aggregate, less
than 10% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, WCH has the right to designate a representative to the Company's board of directors. The compensation and benefits that Mr. Al Muhairi will receive as a director will be described in the definitive proxy statement that the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.
On March 2, 2009, Bruce Claflin was appointed chairman of the Company's board of directors.
 
In connection with the Closing, on March 2, 2009, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, two of the Fab 36 German Companies, repurchased the limited and silent partnership interests in AMD Fab 36 KG held by the remaining unaffiliated limited partner, Leipziger Messe Gesellschaft mbH (""), for the Euro-equivalent of approximately $190 million in cash, and Leipziger Messe withdrew as a partner of AMD Fab 36 KG.
Leipziger Messe
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Convenience Translation with selected schedules only]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is made between:
THIS AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
In this Agreement:
"" means the following agreements providing for first ranking pledges over:
Account Pledges
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
"" means the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and/or the Reporting Agent, as the context requires.
Agent
 
"" means a German limited liability company () with its business address at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany, registered at the commercial register () of the local court () in Dresden under HRB 22350.
AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
Handelsregister
Amtsgericht
"" means a German limited liability company () with its business address at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany, registered at the commercial register () of the local court () in Dresden under HRB 21270.
AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
Handelsregister
Amtsgericht
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended by the Security Amendment Agreement, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the claims of AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH under the Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement.
AMD Fab 36 Holding's Assignment of Receivables
"" means a Delaware limited liability company with its business address at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, United States, registered with the State of Delaware on 18 July 2003 and having its registered business address at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 19801 Delaware, United States, of which the organizational identification number in the State of Delaware assigned by the Division of Corporations, as of the date hereof, is 3683217.
AMD Fab 36 LLC
"" means Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a corporation organised under the laws of the state of Delaware, United States of America, having its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California, United States of America.
AMD Inc.
"" means the amendment agreement dated 25 February 2009 relating to changes of this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Subordination Agreement and the Security Agency Agreement entered into between the Borrower, the Lenders, the Security Agent, the Reporting Agent, AMD Inc., FoundryCo, New German KG and others.
Amendment Agreement
"" means the date of the Amendment Agreement.
Amendment Date
"" means the assignment agreements dated 20 April 2004, as amended by the Security Amendment Agreement, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of rights under the Purchase Agreements over all the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower.
Assignment of the AMD Call Options
Gesellschaftsanteile
"" means the following assignment agreements providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all the claims against the Borrower of:
Assignments of Claims
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all of the Borrower's claims under any insurance policies (with the exception of personal liability insurances and contractors all risks insurances until completion of the building phase) it has taken out in relation to the Project.
Assignment of Insurance Claims
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended by the Security Amendment Agreement, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all the Material Contracts governed by German law entered into by the Borrower (but excluding the Partnership Agreement).
Assignment of Material German Contracts
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended on or about the Amendment Date, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of claims and contractual rights under all the Material Contracts governed by the law of a state of the United States of America entered into by the Borrower.
Assignment of Material US Contracts
"" means the Borrower's Assignment of Receivables, AMD Fab 36 Holding's Assignment of Receivables and the Dutch BV 1 Assignment of Receivables, and "" shall mean any of them.
Assignments of Receivables
Assignment of Receivables
"" means the assignment agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date, providing for the Assignment to the Security Agent of all claims of New German KG against AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH under the Service Agreement.
Assignment of Service Agreement Claims
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of warranty claims (including any underlying Security) under the warranty provided by the Project Engineer.
Assignment of Warranties
"" means Advanced Technology Investment Company, a company organised under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, having its registered and principal office at P.O. Box 45005, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
ATIC
"" means Ernst & Young or another international auditing firm of similar repute and standing.
Auditors
"" means an authorisation, consent, approval, resolution, license, exemption, filing or registration.
Authorisation
"" means the period from and including the Signing Date to and including 28 September 2007.
Availability Period
"" means a Lender's Commitment minus:
Available Commitment
 
 
"" means the aggregate for the time being of each Lender's Available Commitment.
Available Facility
 
"" means EUR.
Base Currency
"" means in relation to a Loan, the amount specified in the Utilisation Request delivered by the Borrower for that Utilisation (or, if the amount requested is denominated in USD, the amount converted into the Base Currency at the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date which is four (4) Business Days before the Utilisation Date or, if later, the date the Facility Agent receives the Utilisation Request), as adjusted to reflect any repayment, prepayment, consolidation or division of such Loan.
Base Currency Amount
"" means:
Base Financial Statements
 
 
 
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended by the Security Amendment Agreement, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the Borrower's claims under the Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement.
Borrower's Assignment of Receivables
"" means the amount (if any) by which:
Break Costs
 
exceeds:
 
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, Dresden, London, Luxembourg, and
Business Day
 
 
"" means the financial model dated 4 November 2003 for the period beginning on 1 January 2003 and ending on 31 December 2012, including profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flow projections relating to the Project, in the agreed form set out in Schedule 7 (), together with a favourable opinion of Arthur D. Little dated 4 November 2003.
Business Plan
The Business Plan
 
"" means an agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended by amendment agreement dated 19 April 2005, providing for call options in favour of the Security Agent in respect of the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower or in the Participations held by Leipziger Messe GmbH and LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH.
Call Option
Gesellschaftsanteile
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in paragraph (a) of Clause 19.1 (s).
Cash
Financial Definition
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in paragraph (a) of Clause 19.1 (s).
Cash Equivalents
Financial Definition
"" means an interest-bearing escrow account maintained by the Borrower with the Security Agent into which amounts are to be paid pursuant to Clause 20.35 () in the currency and in the amounts set out therein which are to be utilized exclusively for the purpose described therein.
Cash Reserve Account
Balancing Payments to and from Cash Reserve Account
"" means an agreement providing for a first ranking pledge over the Cash Reserve Account.
Cash Reserve Account Pledge
"" means a Cash shortfall of the Borrower (whether in respect of operating or non-operating costs), including without limitation a Cash shortfall from cost overruns from capital expenditures or arising from reclamations of public allowances or grants () by the Federal/State Guarantor.
Cash Shortfall
Investitionszulagen / Investitionszuschsse
"" means:
Change of Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of this definition, "" means the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and any political subdivision or agency thereof, or any legal entity which is a separate legal person, sovereign, corporate or otherwise, and which is an organ of the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi or political subdivision thereof, or, with respect to any corporate person, a (directly or indirectly) wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi or political subdivision thereof.
Abu Dhabi Government
"" means any assets of the Borrower that are secured in favour of the Security Agent pursuant to the Security Documents or any of them.
Charged Assets
"" means the date on which all of the initial conditions precedent set forth in Part I () of Schedule 2 () are satisfied, or waived, in accordance with Clause 4.1 ().
Closing
Initial Conditions Precedent
Conditions Precedent
Initial Conditions Precedent
"" means:
Commitment
 
 
to the extent not cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement.
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 6 ().
Compliance Certificate
Form of Compliance Certificate
"" means a confidentiality undertaking substantially in a recommended form of the LMA as set out in Schedule 8 () or in any other form agreed between the Borrower and the Facility Agent.
Confidentiality Undertaking
LMA Form of Confidentiality Undertaking
"" means the following agreements:
Cost Plus Reimbursement Agreement
 
 
"" means any corporate credit rating/corporate family rating assigned to AMD Inc. by Standard & Poor's or Moody's, respectively.
Credit Rating
"" means any radioactive emissions and any natural or artificial substance (in whatever form) the generation, transportation, storage, treatment, use or disposal of which (whether alone or in combination with any other substance) gives rise to a risk of causing substantial harm to man or any other living organism or damaging the Environment or public health or welfare, including (without limitation) any controlled, special, hazardous, toxic, radioactive or dangerous waste.
Dangerous Substance
 
"" means any issue after the Signing Date of public or privately placed debt securities of the Borrower.
Debt Issue
"" means an Event of Default or any event or circumstance specified in Clause 21 () that would (with the expiry of a grace period, the giving of notice, the making of any determination under the Finance Documents or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.
Default
Events of Default
"" means AMD Netherlands Technologies B.V., a limited liability company organized under the laws of The Netherlands with its business address at Locatellikade 1, 1076AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands, registered at the Chamber of Commerce () of Amsterdam under number file number 34316285.
Dutch BV 1
Kamer van Koophandel
"" means the assignment agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the rights and claims of Dutch BV 1 against FoundryCo under the Guarantee Agreement.
Dutch BV 1 Assignment of Receivables
"" means the agreement () dated 20 November 2003 made between the Borrower and the Project Engineer pertaining to the design and construction of the Project.
EPC Contract
Generalbernehmervertrag
"" means the media of air, water and land (wherever occurring) and in relation to the media of air and water includes, without limitation, the air and water within buildings and the air and water within other natural or man-made structures above or below ground and any water contained in any underground strata.
Environment
"" means any claim by any person:
Environmental Claim
 
 
"" means each of the following and their consequences:
Environmental Contamination
 
 
 
 
"" means all laws, regulations, directives, codes of practice, circulars, guidance notices, instructions and the like issued by a governmental authority and having legal effect concerning the protection of human health, the Environment, the conditions of the work place or the generation, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of Dangerous Substances.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit, license, authorisation, consent or other approval required by any Environmental Law.
Environmental License
"" means any equipment and tools (including any information technology software or hardware which is embedded or installed in, or essential for the working of, that equipment) to be owned by the Borrower and to be installed on the Site for the development and production of microprocessors on silicon wafers and which is required by the Borrower to implement the Project in accordance with the Business Plan.
Equipment
"" means any issue of partnership interests or shares by the Borrower or any issue or grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, partnership interests or shares in the Borrower.
Equity Issue
"" means an interest-bearing escrow account (with two sub-accounts denominated in EUR and USD, respectively) to be maintained by the Borrower with the Security Agent (alternatively Cash Equivalents may be invested into a non-interest-bearing deposit account with the Security Agent), funded by Utilisations and utilised solely for the purpose set out in Clause 3 () and Clause 7.4 ().
Escrow Account
Purpose
Mandatory Prepayment from the Escrow Account
"" means the unconditional approval of the European Union in respect of the Federal/State Guarantee and in connection with any public allowances or grants () provided to the Borrower pursuant to a Subsidy Agreement, including a written confirmation by the European Union regarding its approval in respect of the Reorganisation.
EU Notification Approval
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means, in relation to any Loan:
EURIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for the offering of deposits in Euro for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the relevant Loan.
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the amounts of the outstanding Loans denominated in EUR.
EUR Outstandings
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Clause 21.1 ().
Event of Default
Acceleration
"" means the amount, from time to time, of capital in the Borrower contributed by FoundryCo or its Affiliates in excess of the amount required to be contributed prior to first Utilisation pursuant to Part II () of ().
Excess Contributed Capital Amount
Conditions Precedent to first Utilisation
Schedule 2
Conditions Precedent
 
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means the Financial Indebtedness or other indebtedness of the Borrower outstanding prior to the date of initial Utilisation, but does not include Financial Indebtedness arising under the Revolving Credit Agreement or a Subordinated Loan Agreement.
Existing Indebtedness
"" means the Security granted or existing over the assets of the Obligors that is existing prior to the date of initial Utilisation.
Existing Security
"" means the exit agreement () dated on or amout the Amendment Date made between AMD Inc., the Free State of Saxony, LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Leipziger Messe GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, AMD Fab 36 LLC and the Borrower providing for the transfer by Leipziger Messe GmbH and LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH of their partnership interests in the Borrower to AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH and the General Partner, respectively, and of the interest of Leipziger Messe GmbH in the silent participation between the Borrower and the Limited Partners to AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH.
Exit Agreement
Ausscheidensvereinbarung
"" means a date up to three (3) years after the Termination Date proposed by the Borrower and approved by each Lender and the Federal/State Guarantors as the date by which all Loans must be repaid following an extension of the Termination Date for the Loans pursuant to Clause 6.3 () but not later than the date which is the tenth (10
Extended Termination Date
Extension of Termination Date
th
) anniversary of the Signing Date or, if that is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day.
"" means the term loan facility made available under this Agreement as described in Clause 2 ().
Facility
The Facility
"" means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency with the Base Currency in the European foreign exchange market at or about 12.00 noon on a particular day.
Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange
"" means the higher of (i) seven hundred million (700,000,000) EUR and (ii) the amount of the Outstandings.
Facility Amount
"" means the office or offices notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent in writing on or before the date it becomes a Lender (or, following that date, by not less than five (5) Business Days' written notice) as the office or offices through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Facility Office
"" means the guarantees granted by the Federal/State Guarantors for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agents (after realisation of all Transaction Security, subject however to a limited right of advance appropriation in favour of the Finance Parties in relation to the Security constituted by the Cash Reserve Account Pledge) in respect of eighty (80) . of all losses (except certain currency-related losses) sustained by the Lenders and the Agents in respect of the Finance Documents in accordance with the terms set out in the Federal/State Guarantors Decision.
Federal/State Guarantee
per cent
 
"" means:
Federal/State Guarantors
 
 
"" means the decision of the Federal/State Guarantors and of PwC Deutsche Revision Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft ("") based on the inter-ministerial committee meetings () dated 6/17 November 2003 and based on the letters of PwC in connection therewith dated 17 March 2004, 7 April 2004 and 8 April 2004 (), as set out in Schedule 12 (), as further amended by the letters of PwC dated 3 and 20 January 2005, 20 and 22 December 2005, 6 February 2006, 11 October 2006, 10 February 2009 (in relation to the Reorganisation) and 10 February 2009 (in relation to the withdrawal of Leipziger Messe GmbH as limited partner in the Borrower and related matters).
Federal/State Guarantors Decision
PwC
interministerielle Sitzungen
Brgschaftsentscheidung
Federal/State Guarantors Decision
"" means the letter dated 28 November 2003 made between the Mandated Lead Arrangers, the Borrower and the Guarantor and the letter dated 16 April 2004 made between the Facility Agent and the Borrower setting out any of the fees referred to in Clause 11 (), and "" means any of them.
Fee Letters
Fees
Fee Letter
"" means this Agreement, any Fee Letter, any Security Document and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower and "" means any of them.
Finance Documents
Finance Document
"" means the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, the Reporting Agent, the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Lenders and "" means any of them.
Finance Parties
Finance Party
"" means any indebtedness for or in respect of:
Financial Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means each of those periods of approximately thirteen weeks ending on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December in each financial year.
Fiscal Quarter
"" means The Foundry Company, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, with its registered and principal office at Maple Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY-1104, Cayman Islands.
FoundryCo
"" means FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries from time to time and "" shall be construed accordingly.
FoundryCo Group
member of the FoundryCo Group
"" means the Funding Agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date of which a draft has been deposited with the SEC by AMD Inc.
Funding Agreement
"" means AMD Fab 36 LLC or, upon substitution of the former by AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH as general partner of the Borrower, the latter.
General Partner
"" means generally accepted accounting principles generally used by the accounting profession and in effect in Germany from time to time ().
German GAAP
Grundstze ordnungsmssiger Buchfhrung
"" means:
German Qualifying Lender
 
 
 
 
but only if the Lender described in this paragraph (a) (and further, (A) in the case of a partnership, each member of the partnership, and (B) in the case of a company which carries on a trade or business in Germany through a branch or agency, the branch or agency) is entitled to receive any and all payments under the Finance Documents (subject to completion of any procedural formalities) without a Tax Deduction; or
 
"" means a double taxation agreement with Germany which makes provision for full exemption of tax imposed by Germany on interest.
German Treaty
 
"" means a Lender which:
German Treaty Lender
 
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction to which a German Treaty applies.
German Treaty State
"" means the Federal Republic of Germany.
Germany
"" means the assignment agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended by the Security Amendment Agreement, providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of all existing and future claims of the Borrower for goods and services provided, or based on other legal grounds, that it holds against all of its debtors with the exception of such claims which have been assigned under the other Security Documents.
Global Assignment of Receivables
"" means AMD Inc., FoundryCo and their respective Subsidiaries from time to time, and "" shall be construed accordingly.
Group
member of the Group
"" means for any fiscal month of AMD Inc. the amount of all cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of AMD Inc. (other than amounts which are "restricted cash" within the meaning of US GAAP, including cash and cash equivalents which are the subject of Security in favour of any party (other than Transaction Security); this exclusion shall however not apply to Security in favour of any relevant account bank constituted by (i) application of standard terms and conditions of financial institutions, (ii) other standard and customary terms and conditions or (iii) operation of law, in each case in respect of accounts which are not subject to any requirement to maintain a minimum balance on such accounts), FoundryCo and of all of their respective Subsidiaries for any periods during which the consolidated results of FoundryCo must be consolidated with those of AMD Inc. for the purposes of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of Clause 18.1 () in accordance with US GAAP, calculated employing the same method applied in calculating the annual audited and quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements of AMD Inc. in accordance with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, less the aggregate amount of all outstandings under any third-party revolving credit facility agreement (or third party term loan agreement for borrowed money with an original maturity of up to one (1) year) of AMD Inc. and any member of the Group.
Group Consolidated Cash
Financial Statements
"" means the chart entitled "The Foundry Company - Legal Structure (1)" showing all members of the FoundryCo Group and their respective shareholdings in each of their Subsidiaries, to be provided pursuant to the terms of the Amendment Agreement.
Group Structure Chart
"" means a guarantee agreement entered into on 21 April 2004, as amended on 10 October 2006 and as further amended on the Amendment Date and made between AMD Inc., FoundryCo, Dutch BV 1, the Borrower, the Security Agent and the Facility Agent (acting for the Lenders) containing the irrevocable and unconditional joint and several guarantee granted by the Guarantors for the benefit of each Finance Party in
Guarantee Agreement
 
respect of the punctual performance by the Borrower of all its payment obligations under the Finance Documents (up to the Facility Amount and all interest and other amounts payable under the Finance Documents to which the Borrower is a party), including an indemnity in relation to repayment claims made in connection with any public allowances or grants ().
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means AMD Inc. and FoundryCo.
Guarantors
"" means, in relation to a company or corporation, any other company or corporation in respect of which it is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
"" means the information memorandum dated 10 February 2004 concerning the Borrower and certain members of the Group, prepared by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein using information provided by the Borrower and the Guarantor in relation to the Project, agreed between the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Borrower, approved by the Borrower and distributed by Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein on behalf of the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Borrower prior to the Signing Date to the Original Lenders.
Information Memorandum
"" means two (2.00) .
Initial Margin
per cent. per annum
"" means Willis Limited, Aon Risk Services Inc. of Northern California Insurance Services or any person who replaces them as Insurance Adviser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Insurance Adviser
"" means the total cash proceeds of any insurance claim intended to compensate for damage to any asset of the Borrower (excluding proceeds received in respect of insurance claims for (i) interruption of business or (ii) loss of inventory) received by it in EUR (or if not received in EUR, it's equivalent in EUR based on the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date of receipt), after deducting:
Insurance Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the report referred to in paragraph (c) of the definition of "".
Insurance Report
Report
 
"" means any and all rights and interests existing now or in the future in any part of the world in or relating to registered and unregistered trade marks and service marks, domain names, patents, registered designs, utility models, trade names, business names, registered or unregistered copyrights in published works, inventions registered or unregistered, data base rights, know-how, any other intellectual property rights and any applications for any of the foregoing and any goodwill therein.
Intellectual Property
"" means any rights of an Obligor to Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property Rights
"" means, in relation to a Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause 9 () and, in relation to an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause 8.6 ().
Interest Period
Interest Periods
Default Interest and Penalty
"" means any joint venture entity, whether a company, unincorporated firm, undertaking, association, joint venture or partnership or any other entity.
Joint Venture
"" means all documents to be executed by the Borrower required for the creation of a first ranking land charge in chapter III over all real property of the Borrower located at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden, partial area of approximately 199,000 square meters of the parcel () 121/5 in the communal district Wilschdorf, currently file 851 of the land register at the land registry Dresden for Wilschdorf and the security purpose agreement () in relation to such land charge.
Land Charge
Flurstck
Zweckbestimmungserklrung
"" means:
Lender
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" means, in relation to any Loan:
LIBOR
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Date for the offering of deposits in Dollar for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the Relevant Loan.
"" means the perpetual license agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date and made amongst AMD Inc., FoundryCo, Dutch BV 1, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the Borrower, all listed in Schedule 13 ().
License Agreement
Project Documents
"" means:
Limited Partners
 
 
"" means the Loan Market Association.
LMA
"" means the notarial share sale and transfer agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date between Leipziger Messe GmbH as seller and New German KG as purchaser in respect of the sale and transfer of all shares in LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH.
LMB Share Transfer Agreement
"" means a loan made or to be made by way of a cash advance under the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Loan
"" means:
Majority Lenders
 
 
"" means each management plan delivered by the Borrower to the Facility Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of Clause 18.1 ().
Management Plan
Financial Statements
"" means the agreement dated 31 October 2003, as amended on or about the Amendment Date and made amongst the Borrower and AMD Saxony Limited Liability Company & Co. KG and listed in Schedule 13 ().
Management Service Agreement
Project Documents
"" means the percentage rate calculated by the Facility Agent in accordance with Schedule 4 ().
Mandatory Cost
per annum
Mandatory Cost Formula
"" means the percentage rate determined in accordance with Clause 8.2 () to Clause 8.4 ().
Margin
per annum
Margin Ratchets
No Margin Ratchets in Events of Default
"" means a material adverse effect on:
Material Adverse Effect
 
 
 
"" means the documents listed in Schedule 16 () as at the date of this Agreement, and any other documents designated as such by the Majority Lenders (acting through the Facility Agent) and the Borrower, and "" means any of them.
Material Contracts
The Material Contracts
Material Contract
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Clause 20.18 ().
Minimum Cash
Minimum Cash Balances
"" means, in respect of a Lender, any Mandatory Cost, including the cost (if any) of its complying with any reserve asset, liquidity or other regulatory requirements affecting it, expressed as a percentage rate .
Minimum Reserve Cost
per annum
"" means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month, except that:
Month
 
 
 
The above rules (a) to (c) will only apply to the last Month of any period.
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means, in relation to:
Net Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means AMD Management Services Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, a German limited partnership with its business address at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany, registered at the commercial register () of the local court () in Dresden under HRA 7256.
New German KG
Handelsregister
Amtsgericht
"" means the Borrower or any of the Guarantors.
Obligor
"" means any of the financial institutions listed in Schedule 1 ().
Original Lender
The Original Lenders
"" means, at any time, the sum of the EUR Outstandings and, converted for that purpose into EUR at the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange at the relevant time, the USD Outstandings (which amounts will also include, without double-counting, any sums deposited into the Escrow Account).
Outstandings
"" means any member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the EUR as its lawful currency in accordance with legislation of the European Union relating to European Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
"" means each of the interests of the silent partners in the silent participation () between the Borrower and the Limited Partners.
Participation
stille Gesellschaft
"" means the agreement () dated 21 April 2004, as amended on 19 April 2005 and by the Exit Agreement and as further amended by an amendment agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date, and made between the Borrower and Leipziger Messe GmbH and the Limited Partners.
Participation Agreement
Vertrag ber die Errichtung einer stillen Gesellschaft
"" means the partnership agreement () of the Borrower dated 21 April 2004, as amended on 19 April 2005 and by the Exit Agreement and as further amended by an amendment agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date.
Partnership Agreement
Kommanditgesellschaftsvertrag
"" means the agreements providing for first ranking pledges over the partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower granted by:
Partnership Interest Pledges
Gesellschaftsanteile
 
 
 
 
relating to all present and future partnership interests held by such partners.
"" means a party to this Agreement and includes its successors in title, permitted assigns and permitted transferees.
Party
 
"" means, in relation to the Borrower, the business of a silicon foundry, including the design, development, manufacture, marketing and sales of integrated circuits, together with any activity which is ancillary or incidental to any of the above.
Permitted Business
"" means:
Permitted Disposal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Distributions
 
 
 
and is continuing (unless otherwise determined by the Majority Lenders), (A) distributions by the Borrower in amounts necessary to permit the Limited Partners, or any Holding Company of the Limited Partners on their behalf, to pay when due and payable any amount of German income taxes required to be paid by the Limited Partners on their income on the annual profits of the partnership as partners of the Borrower and on the annual profits from the Participation and (B) provided that the Credit Rating at the date of such distribution is B3 or better by Moody's and B- or better by Standard & Poor's, distributions (by way of dividends, repurchase, redemption or otherwise) by the Borrower to AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH or any Holding Company or Affiliate thereof on its behalf, in amounts not exceeding, in the aggregate, the Excess Contributed Capital Amount other than Excess Contributed Capital Amounts which have been made available pursuant to paragraph (b) (iv) below;
 
 
 
"" means any Financial Indebtedness:
Permitted Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Loans and Guarantees
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Security
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a financial institution with a rating of not lower than A3 (Moody's Investor Services, Inc.) or A- (Standard & Poor's Corporation).
Prime Bank
"" means the construction and operation of a 300mm silicon wafer microprocessor fabrication facility located at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden to be owned and operated by the Borrower with a planned total capital expenditure (including, without limitation, construction costs) by 31 December 2007 of approximately two billion, four hundred million (2,400,000,000) EUR.
Project
"" means the documents listed in Schedule 13 () as at the Amendment Date, and any other documents entered into by either Obligor that are not Finance Documents, are required in relation to the Project and are designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower, and "" means any of them.
Project Documents
The Project Documents
Project Document
"" means M+W Zander Facility Engineering GmbH or any person who replaces them as Project Engineer from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Project Engineer
"" means the design, development and construction of the Project at the Site and any other works contemplated in the Project Documents in relation to the Project.
Project Works
"" means the purchase agreement dated 21 April 2004, as amended on 19 April 2005 and , by the Exit Agreement, on or about the Amendment Date, made between Leipziger Messe GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH and FoundryCo, concerning partner or equity interests () in the partnership of the Borrower () and the purchase agreement dated 21 April 2004, as amended on 19 April 2005 and , by the Exit Agreement, on or about the Amendment Date, made between Leipziger Messe GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, FoundryCo and the Borrower concerning the Participation ().
Purchase Agreement
Gesellschaftsanteile
"Kaufvertrag ber Kommanditgesellschaftsanteile"
"Kaufvertrag ber stille Beteiligungen"
"" means in respect of any payment by the Borrower or any Guarantor which is capable of attracting a Tax Deduction (as defined in Clause 12.1 ()), a Lender which is beneficially entitled to a payment of interest under a Finance Document and which is both a German Qualifying Lender and a US Qualifying Lender.
Qualifying Lender
Definitions
"" means the last day of each Fiscal Quarter.
Quarter Date
"" means, in relation to any period for which an interest rate is to be determined, (i) (if the currency is Euro) two TARGET Days before the first day of that period and (ii) (if the currency is Dollar) two Business Days before the first day of that period, in each case unless market practice differs in the European interbank market (or if the currency is Dollar, in the London interbank market), in which case the Quotation Day will be determined by the Facility Agent in accordance with market practice in the relevant interbank market (and if quotations would normally be given by leading banks in the relevant interbank market on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of those days).
Quotation Date
 
"" means Angermann & Lders GmbH & Co. KG or any person who replaces them as Real Estate Appraiser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Real Estate Appraiser
"" means Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg and Dresdner Bank AG and the principal offices of such other banks as may be appointed by the Facility Agent in consultation with the Borrower.
Reference Banks
"" means, in relation to a Utilisation Request, each invoice in relation to which that Utilisation Request has been given, as identified in such Utilisation Request and relating to the purchase of Equipment and the payment of costs for Services incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of implementing the Project (in accordance with the Business Plan).
Relevant Invoice
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 19.1 ().
Relevant Period
Financial Definitions
"" has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Amendment Agreement and made between, , the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Lenders, the Facility Agent and the Security Agent.
Reorganisation
inter alia
"" means each of the dates specified in the table in Clause 6.1 ().
Repayment Date
Repayment of the Loans
"" means, in relation to each Repayment Date, the amount by which the aggregate principal amount of the EUR Outstandings and the USD Outstandings is to be reduced on that Repayment Date in accordance with paragraph (a) of Clause 6.1 (), as reduced, if applicable, in accordance with Clause 7.1 () to Clause 7.4 () (inclusive), or Clause 7.7 () to 7.10 () (inclusive).
Repayment Instalment
Repayment of the Loans
Illegality
Mandatory Prepayment from the Escrow Account
Voluntary Prepayment of the Loans
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
"" means each of the representations set out in Clause 17.2 () to Clause 17.8 () (inclusive), Clause 17.11 () to Clause 17.23 () (inclusive) and Clause 17.27 () to Clause 17.31 () (inclusive).
Repeating Representations
Status
Governing Law and Enforcement
No Default
No Security
Management Plans
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
"" means:
Reports
 
 
 
 
 
each such Report, other than that set out in paragraph (d) above, being addressed to, or permitted to be relied upon by, the Finance Parties, and "" shall be construed accordingly.
Report
"" means the insurance cover under the policies taken out pursuant to the contracts set out in Schedule 17 ().
Required Insurance
Required Insurance
"" means the revolving credit agreement in an amount of EUR 750,000,000 dated 21 April 2004, as amended on or about the Amendment Date, and made between FoundryCo and the Borrower.
Revolving Credit Agreement
"" means:
Screen Rate
 
 
displayed on the appropriate page of the Telerate screen. If the agreed page is replaced or service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate after consultation with the Borrower and the Lenders.
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or other successor United States governmental authority.
SEC
"" means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.
Security
"" means the security agency agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended on or about the Amendment Date, made, , between the Borrower, the Guarantors, the General Partner, LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the Finance Parties.
Security Agency Agreement
inter alia
"" means the global amendment agreement dated on or about the Amendment Date made between, , the Borrower, AMD Inc., the General Partner, LM Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the Finance Parties, in respect of certain changes made to the Security Documents.
Security Amendment Agreement
inter alia
"" means the assignment agreements dated 20 April 2004 providing for the assignment to the Security Agent of the fixed and current assets of the Borrower.
Security Assignment
"" means:
Security Documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Federal/State Guarantors and the Obligors (or Subsidiaries of the Obligors), and "" means any of them.
Security Providers
Security Provider
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Part II of Schedule 3 () given in accordance with Clause 9 ().
Selection Notice
Requests
Interest Periods
"" means the installation and commissioning of the Equipment and any additional building and installation services associated therewith.
Services
"" means the service level agreement concerning certain administrative services to be provided by New German KG dated on or about the Amendment Date and made between New German KG, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH and the Borrower.
Services Agreement
 
"" means the following agreements providing for (save for Permitted Security) first ranking pledges over:
Share Pledges
 
 
 
 
relating to all present and future shares held by such partners.
"" means the date of this Agreement.
Signing Date
"" means the real property purchased and buildings to be erected at Wilschdorfer Landstrasse, 01109 Dresden in relation to the Project, registered with the Wilschdorf land register at the Dresden local court, district () of Wilschdorf, folio 1019, parcel () no. 121/6.
Site
Gemarkung
Flurstck
"" means a time determined in accordance with Schedule 9 ().
Specified Time
Timetables
"" means Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Standard & Poor's
"" means the step plan prepared by AMD Inc. in the agreed form, describing the measures to be implemented for the purposes of the Reorganisation, to be provided in accordance with the terms of the Amendment Agreement.
Step Plan
"" means any loan made to, or debt instrument issued by, the Borrower, under a Subordinated Loan Agreement, the Revolving Credit Agreement or any other document or instrument, which is subordinated to the rights and claims of the Finance Parties in accordance with the Subordination Agreement.
Subordinated Loan
"" means any agreement pursuant to which FoundryCo (or a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of FoundryCo) provides or has acquired a subordinated loan to the Borrower, which subordinated loan will be subject to the restrictions imposed by Clause 20.20 () and Clause 20.21 ().
Subordinated Loan Agreement
Subordinated Loans
Distributions
"" means the subordination agreement dated 20 April 2004, as amended on or about the Amendment Date, made amongst, , the Borrower, the Guarantors, the General Partner, the Limited Partners and the Finance Parties in relation to the equity and subordinated debt of the Borrower and other claims of the Affiliates of the Borrower.
Subordination Agreement
inter alia
"" means, in relation to any company, corporation or partnership:
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and, for this purpose, a company, corporation or partnership shall be treated as being controlled by another if that other company, corporation or partnership is able to direct its affairs and/or to control the composition of its board of directors or equivalent body.
"" means any agreement made by the Borrower or any administrative decision () addressed to the Borrower in relation to grants and/or allowances () in connection with the Project and any statutory or other obligations imposed on the Borrower associated therewith.
Subsidy Agreement
Bescheid
Investitionszulagen/Investitionszuschsse
"" means the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system commonly known as "TARGET2" which utilises a single shared platform and which was launched on 19 November 2007.
TARGET
"" means any day on which TARGET is open for the settlement of payments in EUR.
TARGET Day
"" means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying any of the same).
Tax
"" means Fraunhofer Institut Siliziumtechnologie (ISIT), Fraunhoferstrae 1, 25524 Itzehoe, or any person who replaces them as Technical Adviser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Technical Adviser
 
"" means Emerald Technology Valuations LLC or any person who replaces them as Technical Appraiser from time to time with the consent of the Majority Lenders and the Borrower.
Technical Appraiser
"" means attainment of the following:
Technical Completion
 
 
 
"" means 31 March 2011.
Termination Date
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments, being seven hundred million (700,000,000) EUR at the Signing Date.
Total Commitments
"" means the Finance Documents and the Project Documents and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower, and "" means any of them.
Transaction Documents
Transaction Document
"" means any Security for all or any part of the obligations of the Borrower under the Finance Documents or any of them expressed to be created by or pursuant to, or to be evidenced in, the Security Documents or any of them.
Transaction Security
"" means a certificate substantially in one of the forms set out in Schedule 5 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Borrower.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificates
"" means, in relation to a transfer, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
"" means any currency or interest purchase, cap or collar agreement, forward rate agreement, interest rate or currency future or option contract, foreign exchange or currency purchase or sale agreement, interest rate swap, currency swap or combined interest rate and currency swap agreement and any other similar agreement.
Treasury Transaction
"" means the German Treaty and the US Treaty, and "" means any of them.
Treaties
Treaty
"" means a jurisdiction having both a German Treaty and a US Treaty.
Treaty State
"" means any sum due and payable but unpaid by the Borrower under the Finance Documents.
Unpaid Sum
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth from time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the U.S. accounting profession), as applicable.
US GAAP
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the outstanding Loans denominated in USD.
USD Outstandings
"" means:
US Qualifying Lender
 
 
"" means a double taxation agreement with the United States which makes provision for full exemption of tax imposed by the United States on interest.
US Treaty
"" means a Lender which:
US Treaty Lender
 
 
 
"" means a jurisdiction to which a US Treaty applies.
US Treaty State
"" means a utilisation of the Facility.
Utilisation
"" means the date of a Utilisation, being the date on which the relevant Loan is made or to be made.
Utilisation Date
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Part I of Schedule 3 ().
Utilisation Request
Requests
"" means value added tax and any other tax of a similar nature.
VAT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrower a term loan facility to be utilised in either EUR or USD in an aggregate amount the Base Currency Amount of which is equal to the Total Commitments.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Facility in or towards the payment of the Relevant Invoices (unless the Utilisation(s) are made for the purposes of being deposited into the Escrow Account).
 
 
The Borrower will ensure that within five (5) Business Days of the Signing Date, the Facility Agent will have received all of the documents and other evidence listed in Part I () of Schedule 2 () in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders promptly upon being so satisfied.
Initial Conditions Precedent
Conditions Precedent
 
 
 
 
The Lenders will only be obliged to comply with Clause 5.4 () if on the date of any further Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date, and the Facility Agent will only be obliged to permit a withdrawal from the Escrow Account (other than as required for investments in permitted Cash Equivalents) if on the date of a request for such withdrawal and on the date of such withdrawal:
Lenders' Participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower may utilise the Facility by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request not later than at the Specified Time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, prior to the date on which it receives a Utilisation Request, the Facility Agent receives a notice of cancellation of the whole or part of the Available Facility which is to take effect under Clause 7.8 () on a date falling on or after such date (but before the Loan requested in that Utilisation Request has been made), such Available Facility shall be treated, for the purpose of Clause 5.3 (), as if it had already been reduced by the amount of such cancellation (as specified in such notice). Nothing in this Clause 5.5 shall be treated as reducing any Lender's Available Commitment under the Facility for the purposes of Clause 11.1 () prior to the date on which such cancellation would otherwise take effect pursuant to such cancellation notice.
Voluntary Cancellation
Currency and Amount
Commitment Fee
 
If a Lender's Commitment is cancelled under Clause 7.1 () or Clause 7.10 () after the Facility Agent has received a Utilisation Request but before the Loan requested in that Utilisation Request has been made, then, unless the commitment to advance an amount equal to the proportion which such Lender's Commitment bore to the Total Commitments immediately prior to such cancellation taking effect (the "") is assumed by, either:
Illegality
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
Affected/Subject Lender's Proportion
 
 
within one (1) day of receipt of such Utilisation Request, that Loan shall be reduced by the amount of the Affected/Subject Lender's Proportion.
 
The Borrower shall select the currency of a Loan in a Utilisation Request. A selection of USD as the currency for a Loan is not possible when
 
 
 
If before any Quotation Day:
 
 
the Facility Agent will give notice to the Borrower to that effect by 11 a.m. on that Quotation Day. In this event, any Lender that gives notice pursuant to this Clause 5.8 will be required to participate in the Loan in the Base Currency (in an amount equal to that Lender's proportion of the Base Currency Amount) and its participation will be treated as a separate Loan denominated in the Base Currency during that Interest Period.
 
Loans denominated in USD cannot be reconverted to EUR, except as provided in Clause 20.36 ().
Reconversion of USD Outstandings
 
Each Lender's participation in a Loan will be determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of Clause 5.4 ().
Lenders' participation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If on any scheduled Repayment Date the Credit Rating is Caa2 or lower by Moody's or CCC or lower by Standard & Poor's, the Borrower shall, in accordance with the directions of the Facility Agent (acting on the instructions of the Majority Lenders), ensure that the Cash reserves to be held in accordance with Clause 20.18 () shall be increased as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that Clause.
Minimum Cash Balances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may request of the Affected Lender, and the Affected Lender shall in good faith consider such request, that it transfer all of its Loans and Commitments to such Eligible Transferee in accordance with Clause 22.5 (); , prior to or concurrently with such replacement:
Procedure for Transfer
provided that
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of receipt of such Net Proceeds by the Borrower; , that the Borrower shall be deemed to have applied Net Proceeds in accordance with this Clause 7.2 prior to the expiration of such one hundred and eighty (180) days if and to the extent it has presented to the Facility Agent one or more purchase orders for property or assets to be used in connection with the Project;
provided however
bona fide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in either case, within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of receipt of such Insurance Proceeds by the Borrower (or the Borrower has entered into binding agreements to apply such Insurance Proceeds within such one hundred and eighty (180) day period).
 
 
On the date falling twelve (12) Months after the end of the Availability Period, any and all sums remaining in the Escrow Account shall be immediately applied in prepayment of the EUR Outstandings and the USD Outstandings in accordance with Clause 7.5 (), and the Facility Agent shall be entitled to take all action necessary to effect such application.
Application of Prepayments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any cancellation, except in the case of a cancellation pursuant to Clause 7.1 () or Clause 7.10 (), shall reduce the Commitments of the Lenders rateably. No amount so cancelled may be reborrowed.
Illegality
Right of Repayment and Cancellation in Particular Circumstances
 
If the provisions of Clause 7.1 () (subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of Clause 7.1) to Clause 7.3 () (inclusive) would require the prepayment of a Loan otherwise than on the last day of an Interest Period relating to that Loan, the Borrower may, by written notice to the Facility Agent (to be received not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the date on which such prepayment
Illegality
Mandatory Prepayment from Insurance Proceeds
 
would be required to be made (but for this Clause 7.6)), request that the amount of such prepayment be applied by the Facility Agent in prepayment of the relevant Loan on the last day of the then current Interest Period relating to that Loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may, whilst (in the case of paragraphs (i) and (ii) above) the circumstance giving rise to the requirement or indemnification continues or (in the case of paragraph (iii) above) that Minimum Reserve Cost is greater than zero, give the Facility Agent at least seven (7) Business Days' prior written notice of cancellation of the Commitments of that Lender (the "") and its intention to procure the repayment of the Subject Lender's participation in the Loans.
Subject Lender
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower may request of the Subject Lender, and the Subject Lender shall in good faith consider such request, that it transfer all of its Loans and Commitments to such Eligible Transferee in accordance with Clause 22.5 (); , prior to or concurrently with such replacement:
Procedure for Transfer
provided that
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate which is the aggregate of the applicable:
per annum
 
 
 
that for Loans the proceeds of which are disbursed into the Escrow Account, interest on that portion of the Loans the proceeds of which are held in the Escrow Account from time to time shall be determined based on one half (50%) of the Margin .
provided however
per annum
 
 
 
 
 
, the Initial Margin shall apply to all periods until and including the first (1
provided that
st
) anniversary of the Signing Date; and , in respect of all other periods, in the event that neither Credit Rating is available for more than thirty (30) days, the Margin as calculated above will convert to two and a half (2.50) (the "") with retrospective effect from the date on which both Credit Ratings were no longer available.
further provided that
per cent. per annum
Safety Margin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that change shall be reversed with retrospective effect, the Margin applicable to the Facility shall be that justified by the correct Credit Rating, amounts of interest calculated by reference to the changed Margin (whether or not already paid) shall be recalculated by reference to the Margin applicable to such correct Credit Rating and the Borrower or the Lenders, as the case may be, shall be required to make a payment to the Facility Agent, in such amounts as the Facility Agent may specify, to cover any difference in amounts of interest which should have actually been received by the Lenders following any recalculation. The Facility Agent's determination of any such difference shall, save in the case of manifest error, be conclusive and the Facility Agent shall provide the Borrower and the Lenders with reasonable details of the calculation of such difference in Margin.
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay accrued interest on each Loan on the last day of each Interest Period (and, if the Interest Period is longer than three (3) Months, on the dates falling at three (3) monthly intervals after the first day of the Interest Period).
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 10.2 (), if EURIBOR or, if applicable, LIBOR is to be determined by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a quotation by the Specified Time on the Quotation Day, the applicable EURIBOR or LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Banks.
Market Disruption
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) an agency fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Security Agent (for its own account) a security agent fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
In the event of an Extension under Clause 6.3 (), an extension fee will be payable by the Borrower as provided in that Clause.
Extension of Termination Date
 
 
 
 
"" means a Lender that is or will be subject to any liability, or required to make any payment, for or on account of Tax in relation to a sum received or receivable (or any sum deemed for the purposes of Tax to be received or receivable) under a Finance Document.
Protected Party
"" means a credit against, relief or remission for, or repayment of, any Tax.
Tax Credit
"" means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
"" means an increased payment made by the Borrower to a Lender under Clause 12.2 () or a payment under Clause 12.3 ().
Tax Payment
Tax Gross-up
Tax Indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if in either case that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Lender; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Lender shall pay an amount to the Borrower which that Lender determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Borrower. Upon the request of the Borrower, the relevant Lender will use its reasonable endeavours (to the extent commercially practicable and legally permitted) to recover such Tax Credit.
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay and, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability that Finance Party incurs in relation to all stamp duty, registration and other similar Taxes payable in respect of any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enacted or made after the Signing Date.
 
 
 
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates to the extent that it is attributable to that Finance Party having entered into its Commitment or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower shall as an independent obligation, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party to whom that Sum is due against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the conversion including any discrepancy between (A) the rate of exchange used to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (B) the rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt of that Sum.
 
 
The Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability incurred by that Finance Party as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall promptly indemnify the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and the Reporting Agent against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Facility Agent, the Security Agent or the Reporting Agent (in each case acting reasonably) as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall promptly on demand pay to each Agent the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel (limited, until the Signing Date, to one external legal counsel for all the Agents and the Lenders) and any other third party advice) together with any VAT payable in respect thereof incurred by any of them in connection with the evaluation, development, negotiation, preparation, printing, execution and delivery of:
 
 
 
If the Borrower requests an amendment, waiver or consent, the Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, reimburse each Agent for the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by each Agent in responding to, evaluating, negotiating or complying with that request or requirement.
 
The Borrower shall, within three (3) Business Days of demand, pay to each Finance Party the amount of all documented costs and out-of-pocket expenses (including any documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by that Finance Party in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document.
 
The Borrower shall promptly on demand pay to the Security Agent the amount of all reasonable and documented costs (excluding the cost of management time of the Agent or the Lenders' employees) and out-of-pocket expenses (including any reasonable and documented costs and expenses of external legal counsel) incurred by the Security Agent (for its own account and that of any Finance Party) in connection with the administration or release of any of the Transaction Security.
 
The Borrower will pay to the Federal/State Guarantors any costs in connection with the issue of the Federal/State Guarantee and any costs of any report () produced or inspections () carried out in respect of the Federal/State Guarantee by or on behalf of the Federal/State Guarantors.
Gutachten
Prfungen
 
In respect of Clause 16.1 (), 16.2 () and 16.4 (), the relevant Agent shall inform the Borrower of its choice of external legal counsel before instructing such external legal counsel.
Transaction Expenses
Amendment Costs
Security Agent's Costs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, no administrator, receiver, insolvency trustee, bankruptcy examiner, liquidator or similar officer or official has been appointed with respect to itself or, as far as it is aware, any Guarantor or any of its assets or, as far as it is aware, any of the Guarantors' and (to the best of its knowledge and belief) no petition by a third party or proceeding for any such appointment is pending nor, has any resolution for any such appointment been passed in relation to itself or any of the Guarantors.
 
The obligations expressed to be assumed by it in each Transaction Document to which it is a party are, subject to any general principles of law limiting its obligations which are specifically referred to in any legal opinion delivered pursuant to Clause 4 () and the conditions precedent set forth in the Finance Documents, legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations.
Conditions of Utilisation
 
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party do not and will not conflict with:
 
 
 
nor (except as provided in any Security Documents) result in the creation of, or oblige it to create, any Security (other than Permitted Security) over any of its assets.
 
It has the power to enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Transaction Documents.
 
All Authorisations (not including the EU Notification Approval) required:
 
 
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, save for (i) any filings, registrations or notarisations required in relation to the Security Documents, which filings, registrations or notarisations will be made promptly after execution of the relevant documents and in any event within applicable time limits, or (ii) such filings, registrations or notarisations which have been obtained and effected.
 
The choice of German law as the governing law of the Finance Documents which are expressed to be governed by German law (or, in respect of any Security Document to which it is a party, the choice of the relevant governing law of that Security Document) will be recognised and enforced in Germany.
 
To the extent that a payment under a Finance Document is made to a Qualifying Lender and such Qualifying Lender has provided all the documentation required under applicable laws and regulations, it is not required under the law of Germany to make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any such payment.
 
Under the law of Germany, it is not necessary that the Finance Documents be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in Germany or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents or the transactions contemplated therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Its payment obligations under the Finance Documents rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
Except as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through AMD Inc. giving notice of its SEC filings, no material litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency in
 
relation to an Obligor, the Project or any Transaction Document which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect have been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it.
 
 
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through AMD Inc. giving notice of its SEC filings, no Environmental Claim in relation to the Project has been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Indebtedness, it has:
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Security:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Information Memorandum that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Business Plan that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , the Borrower makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date that the most recent Management Plan was delivered to the Facility Agent that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , the Borrower makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
It has not made, or taken any steps to make, any substantial change to the Permitted Business.
 
It has not entered into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
The Borrower has disclosed in writing, or by use of websites in accordance with Clause 18.6 (), to the Facility Agent all material information in its possession relating to the Project, including all Project Documents and other material agreements.
Use of Websites
 
It has at all times complied in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it.
 
The Repeating Representations are deemed to be made by the Borrower to each Finance Party by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing (except as otherwise provided therein) on the Amendment Date, the first Utilisation Date, on the date of each Utilisation Request, on the first day of each Interest Period and, prior to the first Utilisation Date, on each Quarter Date.
 
The undertakings in this Clause 18 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Facility Agent and, in the case of paragraph (e) below, to the Reporting Agent in sufficient numbers for all the Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as soon as the same become available, but in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter in each of its financial years:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for all the Lenders, if the Facility Agent so requests) the following, in each case in respect of the Borrower (unless otherwise noted):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and shall ensure that senior management is available once a year for the purpose of a meeting with the Lenders and the Facility Agent in relation thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The covenants in this Clause 19 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
 
"" means any bank which is an authorised banking institution under applicable legislation and whose short-term debt securities are rated at least P-1 by Moody's or A-1 by Standard & Poor's or as the Facility Agent may approve.
Approved Bank
"" means:
Cash
 
 
"" means:
Cash Equivalents
 
 
 
 
which, in each case, have no more than twelve (12) Months to final maturity.
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, the profit on ordinary activities of the Borrower but:
EBIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, EBIT for such Relevant Period before taking into account:
EBITDA
 
 
 
"" means the aggregate net book value (based on the Borrower's latest Fiscal Quarterly or audited annual financial statements, as applicable), as at the date of computation, of the following assets of the Borrower:
Fixed Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Period, the aggregate amount of the interest (including the interest element of leasing and hire purchase payments; but, excluding interest relating to Participations as permitted under paragraph (b)(i) of the definition of ""), interest accrued (excluding interest
Interest Payable
Permitted Distributions
 
on intercompany loans to the extent not payable), commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges of whatsoever nature payable by the Borrower (including any commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges payable by the Borrower under any interest rate hedging arrangement) but after deducting any commission, fees, discounts and other finance charges receivable by the Borrower under any interest rate hedging arrangement.
"" means, the ratio of:
Loan to Fixed Asset Value
 
 
"" means, in respect of any person, the jurisdiction of the country in which such person is incorporated and, if different, where it is resident or has its principal place of business, and each jurisdiction or state in which it owns or leases property or otherwise conducts its business.
Relevant Jurisdiction
"" means each period of twelve (12) months ending on the last day of each of the Borrower's financial years and/or each period of twelve (12) months that corresponds with four consecutive Fiscal Quarters ending on the Quarter Date on which the relevant calculation falls to be made.
Relevant Period
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Loan to Fixed Asset Value as at the end of any Relevant Period specified in Column A below shall not exceed the percentage set out opposite such Relevant Period in Column B below:
 
 
All calculations made for the purposes of the covenants set out in Clause 19.2 () shall be made by reference to the following:
Loan to Fixed Asset Value
 
 
 
The financial covenants set out in this Clause 19 shall be tested:
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause 20 remain in force from the Signing Date for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
 
 
 
 
any Authorisation required under any law or regulation of Germany to enable it to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility in evidence in Germany.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall at all times comply in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in circumstances where the arrangement or transaction is entered into primarily as a method of raising Financial Indebtedness or of financing the acquisition of an asset.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commencing 1 January 2004, the Borrower shall ensure that each of its financial years and each Fiscal Quarter in each of its financial years shall end on a Quarter Date, unless such change is permitted by the requirements of Clause 18.3 () and to the extent it complies with the requirements set out therein.
Requirements as to Financial Statements
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not request any change to its constitutional documents or request or permit any change to any Participation Agreement in relation to its partnership interests, without the prior written consent of the Facility Agent, where such change relates to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall maintain and preserve all of its assets that are necessary in the conduct of the Permitted Business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall obtain and maintain all requisite Environmental Licenses required in relation to the Project and will comply in all material respects with:
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Borrower shall inform the Facility Agent in writing as soon as reasonably practicable upon its becoming aware of:
 
 
where the claim might, if determined against the Borrower, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents will rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
 
 
(the ""). The Borrower may elect to satisfy the Minimum Cash requirement by maintaining Cash balances and Cash Equivalent balances only in USD, in an aggregate amount equivalent to the relevant amounts as stated above, if and as long as the Group Consolidated Cash, as shown in the most recent financial statements and certificates to be provided to the Facility Agent pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, amounts to no less than USD 500,000,000. If the
Minimum Cash
 
Borrower maintains such balances in USD, compliance with the Minimum Cash requirement shall be measured on the last Business Day of each Month by reference to the Facility Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on that Business Day.
 
 
 
The Borrower shall comply in all material respects with and perform all of its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party.
 
Other than as permitted pursuant to Clause 20.21 (), from the date of first Utilisation, the Borrower shall not:
Distributions
 
 
in each case under any intra FoundryCo Group loan document and/or Subordinated Loan other than in accordance with the Subordination Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
subject at all times to the maintenance of the Minimum Cash.
 
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any amalgamation, demerger or merger.
 
From the date of first Utilisation, the Borrower shall not:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any Treasury Transaction except for any foreign exchange transactions for spot or forward delivery entered into in the ordinary course of business (and not for investment or speculative purposes) to hedge currency and interest rate-related exposures incurred by it.
 
The Borrower shall not pay any fees or commissions to any person other than:
 
 
 
The Borrower will not enter into any arrangement or contract with any of its Affiliates or any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group save where such arrangement or contract is entered into on an arm's length basis.
 
The Borrower shall not:
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not :
 
 
 
any partnership, consortium or Joint Venture in which it has or will have an interest or agree to do any of the foregoing.
 
The Borrower shall not amend, vary, novate, supplement or terminate any Transaction Document to which a Finance Party is not a party, or waive any right thereunder, except for:
 
 
 
The Borrower shall at all times have its accounts audited by the Auditors.
 
The Borrower shall not own any shareholdings in any Subsidiaries.
 
Following the date of Technical Completion, at least eighty (80) . of the personnel not engaged in general or administrative activities of the Borrower will at all times be employees of the Borrower itself.
per cent
 
The Borrower undertakes to comply with and to fulfill all covenants and other ancillary requirements applicable to it in connection with the grant and/or allowance of subsidies (/) to it under the Subsidy Agreement. The Borrower also undertakes to ensure that all obligations (as the case may be, as amended from time to time) undertaken by it in connection with the granting of other state aid (in particular, investment allowances) are fulfilled.
Investitionszuschsse
Investitionszulagen
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, all USD Outstandings will be converted into EUR Outstandings with effect as of a date notified to the Borrower by the Facility Agent in writing no later than two Business Days prior thereto, on the basis of the Facility Agent' Spot Rate of Exchange as per the date of such notice. The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent, for the account of the Lenders, on the Business Day following the date of the notice an amount equivalent to the sum of (i) the excess of the USD Amount over the Current Limit determined as per the date of the Facility Agent's notice and (ii) the amount specified by the Facility Agent as the Break Costs and the other costs reasonably incurred, and losses suffered, by the Finance Parties as a result of the conversion. Upon receipt by the Facility Agent of such payment, or if the relevant USD Amount is equal to or lower than the relevant Current Limit on the day of the Facility Agent's notice, the Cash Account Pledge shall be released by the Security Agent and the Lenders.
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
 
On and at any time after the occurrence of an event or circumstance set out in this Clause 21 which is continuing and, if in case of an event or circumstance pursuant to Clause 21.3 (), Clause 21.5 (, Clauses 21.9 () to 21.14 (), Clauses 21.16 () to 21.19 () and paragraphs (c) and (d) of Clause 21.21 (), such event or circumstance has adverse consequences for the Lenders' risk and security position, such event or circumstance shall constitute an event
Financial Covenants
Misrepresentation)
Ownership of the Borrower
Auditors' Qualification
Change of Control
Project Documents
Guarantor's Non-Compliance
 
of default (an ""). Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default the Lenders shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement for cause (), and to avail themselves in such case of the rights enumerated below:
Event of Default
wichtiger Grund
 
 
 
 
the Facility Agent may, and shall if so directed by the Majority Lenders or by the Federal/State Guarantors, by notice to the Borrower:
 
 
 
 
 
An Obligor does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a Finance Document at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable, unless payment is made within five (5) Business Days of its due date.
 
Any requirement of Clause 19 () and/or Clause 12 () of the Guarantee Agreement is not satisfied.
Financial Covenants
Financial Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the Facility Agent giving notice to the Borrower or the Borrower becoming aware of the failure to comply.
 
Any representation or statement made or deemed to be made by an Obligor in the Finance Documents or any other document delivered by or on behalf of either Obligor under or in connection with any Finance Document is or proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made or repeated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, relief of debtors or protection of creditors, termination of legal entities or any other similar law now or hereafter in effect and which are not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the commencement of such proceedings or such appointment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any attachment, sequestration, distress or execution affects:
 
 
and is not discharged within thirty (30) days.
 
AMD Inc. or, upon the Borrower having become a Subsidiary of FoundryCo with the written consent of the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors, FoundryCo ceases to own, directly or indirectly, more than 50 of the voting capital of the Borrower without having first obtained the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors, such consent not having been unreasonably withheld or delayed.
per cent.
 
If:
 
 
 
 
 
If:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Obligor ceases to carry on all or any substantial part of its business or proposes to do so.
 
The Auditors qualify their certification of the audited financial statements () of the Borrower or qualify their report in any manner that is, in the opinion of the Majority Lenders, materially adverse in the context of the Finance Documents and the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents.
Einschrnkung des Besttigungsvermerks
 
Any event or circumstance occurs which the Majority Lenders reasonably believe has had or is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
There is a Change of Control.
 
 
 
 
The Borrower utilises the Facility in whole or in part for any purposes other than those set out in Clause 3 ().
Purpose
 
If:
 
 
 
the consequences of which would adversely affect the rights of the Finance Parties under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
by another Limited Partner or third parties approved by, and on terms satisfactory to, the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors within sixty (60) days after the due date of any such equity contribution or Subordinated Loans; however, within one hundred and eighty (180) days thereafter, such equity contribution or Subordinated Loans may be replaced by third party equity or other Subordinated Loans approved by, and on terms satisfactory to, both the Majority Lenders and the Federal/State Guarantors.
 
 
 
A Guarantor does not comply with its obligations, as applicable, in relation to any of the following:
 
 
 
 
unless failure by a Guarantor to comply with any such obligation mentioned in relation to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then the New Lender or Lender acting through its new Facility Office is only entitled to receive payment under those Clauses to the same extent as the Existing Lender or Lender acting through its previous Facility Office would have been if the assignment, transfer or change had not occurred.
 
If the New Lender is not an Affiliate of a Lender the New Lender shall, on the date upon which an assignment or transfer takes effect, pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) a fee of two thousand (2,000) EUR.
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, in relation to paragraph (i) (other than any a person who is otherwise bound by contractual or professional confidentiality obligations) and paragraph (ii) above, the person to whom the information is to be given has entered into a Confidentiality Undertaking.
provided that
 
 
Each Obligor shall execute and do all such transfers, assignments, assurances, acts and things as the Facility Agent may reasonably request for perfecting and completing any assignment and transfer by a Lender; , such Lender reimburses the Obligors for their respective reasonable costs and expenses and such assignment and transfer is permitted pursuant to this Clause 22.
provided however
 
 
The Borrower may not assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, each Mandated Lead Arranger has no obligations of any kind to any other Party under or in connection with any Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None of the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, the Reporting Agent and the Mandated Lead Arrangers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall (in proportion to its share of the Total Commitments or, if the Total Commitments are then zero, to its share of the Total Commitments immediately prior to their reduction to zero) indemnify the Facility Agent, the Security Agent and the Reporting Agent, within three (3) Business Days of demand, against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Facility Agent, the Security Agent or the Reporting Agent (otherwise than by reason of its gross negligence or wilful misconduct) in acting as Facility Agent or, as the case may be, Security Agent or, as the case may be, Reporting Agent under the Finance Documents (unless it has been reimbursed by an Obligor pursuant to a Finance Document).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without affecting the responsibility of any Obligor for information supplied by it or on its behalf in connection with any Finance Document, each Lender confirms to each Agent and
 
the Mandated Lead Arrangers that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Finance Document including but not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Reference Bank (or, if a Reference Bank is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is an Affiliate) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent shall appoint another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender to replace that Reference Bank.
 
 
 
 
 
No provision of this Agreement will:
 
 
 
 
 
If a Finance Party (a "") receives or recovers any amount from an Obligor other than in accordance with Clause 27 () and applies that amount to a payment due under the Finance Documents then:
Recovering Finance Party
Payment Mechanics
 
 
 
 
 
The Facility Agent shall treat the Sharing Payment as if it had been paid by the relevant Obligor and distribute it between the Finance Parties (other than the Recovering Finance Party) in accordance with Clause 27.5 ().
Partial Payments
 
 
 
 
If any part of the Sharing Payment received or recovered by a Recovering Finance Party becomes repayable and is repaid by that Recovering Finance Party, then:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each payment received by the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents for another Party shall, subject to Clause 27.3 (), Clause 27.4 () and Clause 27.9 (), be made available by the Facility Agent as soon as practicable after receipt to the Party entitled to receive payment in accordance with this Agreement (in the case of a Lender, for the account of its Facility Office), to such account as that Party may notify to the Facility Agent by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice with a bank in the principal financial centre of the country of that currency (or, in relation to EUR, in a principal financial centre in a Participating Member State or London).
Distributions to an Obligor
Clawback
Payments to the Security Agent
 
The Facility Agent and the Security Agent may (with the consent of the Obligor or in accordance with Clause 28 ()) apply any amount received by it for that Obligor in or towards payment (on the date and in the currency and funds of receipt) of any amount due from that Obligor under the Finance Documents or in or towards purchase of any amount of any currency to be so applied.
Set-Off
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments to be made by the Borrower under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and be made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim; except in respect of claims of the Borrower which are either undisputed between the relevant Finance Party and such Obligor or which have been the subject of a final court judgement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of any Finance Document, at any time after any of the Transaction Security becomes enforceable, the Security Agent may require:
 
 
in each case as the Security Agent may direct for application in accordance with the terms of the Finance Documents.
 
A Finance Party may set off any matured obligation due from an Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any obligation (whether matured or not) owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with the Finance Documents shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax, letter or telex.
 
The address, fax number and telex number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of each Party, the Guarantors and the Federal/State Guarantors for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with the Finance Documents is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any substitute address, fax number, telex number or department or officer as the Party and/or a Guarantor and/or the Federal/State Guarantors may notify to the Facility Agent (or the Facility Agent may notify to the other Parties, a Guarantor and the Federal/State Guarantors, if a change is made by the Facility Agent) by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice.
 
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause 29.2 (), if addressed to that department or officer.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
Promptly upon receipt of notification of an address, fax number and telex number or change of address, fax number or telex number pursuant to Clause 29.2 () or changing its own address, fax number or telex number, the Facility Agent shall notify the other Parties.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
In any litigation or arbitration proceedings arising out of or in connection with a Finance Document, the entries made in the accounts maintained by a Finance Party are evidence of the matters to which they relate.
prima facie
 
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under any Finance Document is, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
Any interest, commission or fee accruing under a Finance Document will accrue from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of three hundred and sixty (360) days.
 
If, at any time, any provision of the Finance Documents is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of any Finance Party, any right or remedy under the Finance Documents shall operate as a waiver, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The rights and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall not be made without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
 
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
This Agreement is translated into the English language. The English translation (without attachments) is attached hereto in (). However, the German version will at all times be the binding version with respect to the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement.
Schedule 19
English non-binding translation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement is governed by German law without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.
 
The District Court of Frankfurt am Main has exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Agreement).
 
The Borrower expressly confirms towards each Finance Party that all funds made available to it under this Agreement will be drawn for its own account, and that it is to be the economic beneficiary () within the meaning of Section 8 Money Laundering Act ().
wirtschaftlich Begnstigter
Geldwschegesetz
 
 
The following documents constitute the "Project Documents" under this Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following documents constitute the "" under this Agreement:
Material Contracts
 
 
 
 
 
All other present or future contracts (save for the Partnership Agreement) that the Borrower has entered into or will enter into with respect to the Project pursuant to which total payments are or will be owing in a total amount of EURO 500,000 or more, or under which amounts in excess of EURO 500,000 will be payable or are expected to become payable within any twelve months period and, notwithstanding the aforementioned thresholds, all other present or future contracts that the Security Agent (after consultation with the Borrower) considers necessary for the undisturbed construction and operation of the Project, including, but not limited to, the following contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
is made between:
THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
WHEREAS
AMD Inc. and FoundryCo enter into this Guarantee Agreement in favour of the other parties hereto in order to ensure that the Finance Parties shall receive payment of all amounts expressed to be payable by the Borrower under the Facility Agreement, any other Finance Document to which it is a party or the Subsidy Agreements in the currency and at the place provided therein at its stated or accelerated maturity and irrespective of the factual or legal circumstances and motives by reason of which the Borrower may fail to pay any of the Guarantors' Liabilities (as each are defined below).
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
In this Guarantee Agreement:
"" means "" (Agent), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Agent
Agent
"" means AMD Saxony LLC, Delaware, United States of America, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, Dresden, and all of their Subsidiaries.
AMD Saxony Group
"" means "" (Amendment Date) as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Amendment Date
nderungsdatum
 
"" means "" (Assignment of Material US Contracts), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Assignment Agreement
Abtretung von Wesentlichen US-Vertrgen
"" means "" (Auditor), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Auditor
Wirtschaftsprfer
"" means "" (Authorisation), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Authorisation
Genehmigung
"" means "" (Base Financial Statements), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Base Financial Statements
Basis-Abschlsse
"" means AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG.
Borrower
"" means "" (Business Day), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Business Day
Bankarbeitstag
"" means "" (Business Plan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Business Plan
Geschftsplan
"" means "" (Cash Shortfalls), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Cash Shortfalls
Barmittel-Defizite
"" means "" (Charged Assets), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Charged Assets
Besichertes Vermgen
"" means any Security provided or assumed by a person in favour of the Security Agent securing the Guarantor's Liabilities, whether generally or to a limited extent only and whether created or entered into before, on or after the date of this Guarantee Agreement.
Collateral Security
"" means "" (Commitment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Commitment
Kreditzusage
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 1 ().
Compliance Certificate
Form of Compliance Certificate
"" means "" (Credit Rating), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Credit Rating
Rating
"" means "" (Dangerous Substance), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Dangerous Substance
Gefhrliche Substanzen
"" means "" (Default), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Default
Kndigungstatbestand
"" means "" (Environment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environment
Umwelt
"" means "" (Environmental Claim), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental Claim
Umweltansprche
"" means each of the following and their consequences:
Environmental Contamination
 
 
 
"" means "" (Environmental Law), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental Law
Umweltrecht
"" means "" (Environmental License), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Environmental License
Umweltgenehmigung
"" means "" (Equipment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Equipment
Anlagen
"" means "" (EU Notification Approval), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
EU Notification Approval
EU-Genehmigung
"" means "" (Event of Default), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Event of Default
Kndigungsgrund
"" means "" (Exit Agreement), as this term is defined in the Amendment Agreement.
Exit Agreement
Ausscheidensvereinbarung
"" means "" (Facility), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Facility
Kredit
"" means a term loan facility agreement of up to EUR700,000,000 dated 21 April 2004, as amended from time to time, made amongst, , the Borrower, the Lenders, Dresdner Bank AG, Niederlassung Luxemburg as Facility Agent and Dresdner Bank AG in Berlin as Security Agent and Reporting Agent (the "").
Facility Agreement
inter alia
Facility Agreement
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantee), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantee
Bundes/Landesbrgschaft
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantor Decision), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantor Decision
Brgschaftsentscheidung
"" means "" (Federal/State Guarantors), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Federal/State Guarantors
Bundes-/Landesbrgen
"" means this Guarantee Agreement, the Facility Agreement, any Fee Letter, any other Security Document and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower and "" means any of them.
Finance Documents
Finance Document
"" means "" (Facility Office), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Facility Office
Kreditgeschftsstelle
 
"" means "" (Fee Letters), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Fee Letters
Gebhrenvereinbarungen
"" means "" (Finance Party), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Finance Party
Finanzierungspartei
"" means "" (Financial Indebtedness), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Financial Indebtedness
Finanzverbindlichkeit
"" means "" (FoundryCo Group), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
FoundryCo Group
FoundryCo Gruppe
"" means, in relation to FoundryCo and the FoundryCo Group collectively, the business of a silicon foundry, including the design, development, manufacture, marketing and sales of integrated circuits, together with any activity which is ancillary or incidental to any of the above.
FoundryCo Group Permitted Business
"" means "" (Funding Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Funding Agreement
Finanzausstattungsvertrag
"" means "" (General Partner), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
General Partner
Komplementr
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually, each Subsidiary of FoundryCo (other than a member of the AMD Saxony Group) incorporated, established or formed in Germany.
German Subsidiaries
"" means "" (Group), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Group
Gruppe
"" means for any fiscal month of AMD Inc. the amount of all cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of AMD Inc. (other than amounts which are "restricted cash" within the meaning of US GAAP, including cash and cash equivalents which are the subject of Security in favour of any party (other than Transaction Security); this exclusion shall however not apply to Security in favour of any relevant account bank constituted by (i) application of standard terms and conditions of financial institutions, (ii) other standard and customary terms and conditions or (iii) operation of law, in each case in respect of accounts which are not subject to any requirement to maintain a minimum balance on such accounts), FoundryCo and all of their respective Subsidiaries for any periods during which the consolidated results of FoundryCo must be consolidated with those of AMD Inc. for the purposes of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of Clause 11.1 () in accordance with US GAAP, calculated employing the same method applied in calculating the annual audited and quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements of AMD Inc. in accordance with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, less the aggregate amount of all outstandings under any third-party revolving credit facility agreement (or third party term loan agreement for borrowed money with an original maturity of up to one (1) year) of AMD Inc. and any member of the Group.
Group Consolidated Cash
Financial Statements
"" means, in relation to AMD Inc. and the Group collectively, the design, development, manufacture, marketing and sales of integrated circuits, together with any activity which is ancillary or incidental to any of the above, and includes the FoundryCo Group Permitted Business.
Group Permitted Business
 
"" means "" (Group Structure Chart), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Group Structure Chart
Schaubild zur Gruppenstruktur
"" means the irrevocable and unconditional guarantee issued by the Guarantors pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement.
Guarantee
"" means all and any sums that may now be, or might at any time in the future become, due, owing, incurred or payable, whether actually or contingently, by the Borrower to the Finance Parties under or pursuant to the Facility Agreement or any other Finance Document to which the Borrower is a party including, without limitation, on account of principal, interest, fees, expenses, indemnity payments, losses or damages and irrespective of:
Guaranteed Liabilities
 
 
 
 
"" means AMD Inc. and FoundryCo, and "Guarantor" means any of them.
Guarantors
"" means the Guaranteed Liabilities and the Indemnified Liabilities.
Guarantors' Liabilities
"" means all and any sums that may now be, or might at any time in the future become, due, owing, incurred or payable, whether actually or contingently, by the Borrower under or pursuant to the Subsidy Agreements as a result of any repayment claim brought by the Federal Republic of Germany or the Free State of Saxony () in connection with any public allowances or grants (/ ) provided to the Borrower including, without limitation, on account of principal, interest, fees, expenses, indemnity payments, losses or damages and irrespective of:
Indemnified Liabilities
Freistaat Sachsen
Investitionszuschsse
Investitionszulagen
 
 
 
"" means "" (Information Memorandum), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Information Memorandum
Information Memorandum
"" in relation to any person, refers to that person undergoing or being subject to any winding-up, bankruptcy, receivership, administration, re-organisation, scheme of arrangement or composition, moratorium, assignment for the benefit of creditors or any analogous event or proceeding.
Insolvency
"" means "" (Insurance Adviser), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Insurance Adviser
Versicherungsberater
 
"" means "" (Insurance Report), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Insurance Report
Versicherungsbericht
"" means "" (Intellectual Property), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Intellectual Property
Geistiges Eigentum
"" means "" (Intellectual Property Rights), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights
Immaterialgterrechte
"" means "" (Interest Period), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Interest Period
Zinsperiode
"" means "" (Lender), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Lender
Kapitalgeber
"" means "" (License Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
License Agreement
Lizenzvertrag
"" means "" (Limited Partners), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Limited Partners
Kommanditisten
"" means "" (Loan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Loan
Kreditbetrag
"" means "" (Majority Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Majority Lenders
Kreditgebermehrheit
"" means "" (Management Plan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Management Plan
Managementplan
"" means "" (Material Adverse Effect), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
Wesentliche Nachteilige Vernderung
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually:
Material Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means "" (Month), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Month
Monat
"" means " (New German KG) as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
New German KG
Neu-KG
"
"" means "" (Obligor), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Obligor
Verpflichteter
"" means "" (Original Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Original Lenders
Ursprngliche Kreditgeber
"" means any person (other than the Guarantors, the Borrower or the Security Agent) who is a party to any Collateral Security.
Other Surety
"" means "Beteiligung" (Participation), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Participation
"" means "" (Participation Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Participation Agreement
Beteiligungsvereinbarung
"" means "" (Partnership Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
Gesellschaftsvertrag
"" means "" (Partnership Interest Pledges), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Partnership Interest Pledges
Verpfndung der Gesellschaftsanteile
"" means "" (Permitted Business), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Business
Zulssiger Geschftsbetrieb
"" means "" (Permitted Indebtedness), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Indebtedness
Zulssige Verbindlichkeiten
"" means "" (Permitted Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Permitted Security
Zulssige Sicherheiten
"" means "" (Project), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Project
Projekt
"" means "" (Project Documents), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Project Documents
Projektdokumente
"" means "" (Protected Party), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Protected Party
Geschtzte Partei
"" means "" (Qualifying Lenders), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Qualifying Lenders
Qualifizierte Kreditgeber
"" means "" (Quarter Date), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Quarter Date
Quartalstag
 
"" means:
Relevant GAAP
 
 
in respect of any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group (either alone or including its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) the generally accepted accounting principles and practices of its jurisdiction of incorporation, formation or establishment.
"" means, collectively or, where the context requires, individually, New German KG, the General Partner, AMD Fab 36 Holding GmbH, AMD Fab 36 Admin GmbH and the Borrower.
Relevant Subsidiaries
"" means each of the representations set out in Clause 10.2 () to Clause 10.8 () (inclusive), Clause 10.11 () to Clause 10.23 () (inclusive) and Clause 10.27 () to Clause 10.32 () (inclusive).
Repeating Representations
Status
Governing Law and Enforcement
No Default
No Security
Management Plans
Security from the Borrower
"" means "" (Reporting Agent), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Reporting Agent
Berichtsagentin
"" means "" (Revolving Credit Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Revolving Credit Agreement
Gesellschafter-Barkreditvertrag
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means "Sicherheiten" (Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Security
"" means "" (Security Document), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Security Document
Sicherheitendokument
"" means "Anteilsverpfndungen" (Share Pledges), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Share Pledges
"" means "" (Signing Date), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Signing Date
Tag der Unterzeichnung
"" means "" (Site), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Site
Betriebsgrundstck
"" means "" (Subordinated Loan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordinated Loan
Nachrangige Darlehen
"" means "" (Subordinated Loan Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordinated Loan Agreement
Gesellschafter-Tilgungskreditvertrag
"" means "" (Subordination Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subordination Agreement
Nachrang- und Kapitalbelassungsvereinbarung
"" means "" (Subsidiary), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subsidiary
Tochtergesellschaft
 
"" means "" (Subsidy Agreement), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Subsidy Agreement
Zuschuvertrag
"" means "" (Step Plan), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Step Plan
Ablaufplan
"" means "" (Tax), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax
Steuern
"" means "" (Tax Credit), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Credit
Steuergutschrift
"" means "" (Tax Deduction), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Deduction
Steuerabzug
"" means "" (Tax Payment), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Tax Payment
Steuerzahlung
"" means "" (Technical Completion), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Technical Completion
Technische Fertigstellung
"" means "" (Transaction Document), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Transaction Document
Transaktionsdokument
"" means "" (Transaction Security), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Transaction Security
Transaktionssicherheiten
"" means "" (Treaties), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Treaties
Abkommen
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth from time to time in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the U.S. accounting profession), as applicable.
US GAAP
"" means "" (Utilization Request), as this term is defined in the Facility Agreement.
Utilization Request
Ziehungsnotiz
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors undertakes to effect payment hereunder promptly upon receipt of the Security Agent's first written demand and its confirmation in writing that the amount claimed corresponds to the Guarantors' Liabilities.
 
The Guarantee constitutes the Guarantors' primary obligation ( (and not a surety guarantee obligation ()) to make payment to the Security Agent in accordance with the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, under any and all circumstances, regardless of the validity, legality or enforceability of the Facility Agreement or any other Finance Document. Demands may be made under this Guarantee Agreement from time to time and may be enforced irrespective of whether any steps or proceedings are or will be taken against the Borrower or any Other Surety to recover amounts claimed under this Guarantee Agreement.
Garantie)
Brgschaft
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall be a continuing security until all of the Guarantors' Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and shall not be satisfied by any intermediate discharge or payment of or on account of the Guarantors' Liabilities or any of them or any settlement of accounts between the Finance Parties and the Borrower or any Other Surety or the Federal Republic of Germany, the Free State of Saxony (), the Agents and the Borrower.
Freistaat Sachsen
 
 
The Guarantors' liability hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional in all circumstances and shall not be discharged, impaired or otherwise affected by any defences, exceptions, rights of withholding or counterclaims which may be available to the Borrower, including without limitation, any one or more of the following (whether occurring with or without the consent of, or notice to, any person):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantors' obligations hereunder are in addition to and not in substitution for any Collateral Security which the Security Agent may now or hereafter hold. This Guarantee Agreement may be enforced without the Security Agent first having recourse to any such Collateral Security and without having to take any steps or proceedings or exhaust any rights against the Borrower or any Other Surety, or may be enforced for any balance due to the Security Agent after having resorted to any one or more such means of obtaining payment and discharge of all or any part of the Guarantors' Liabilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if in either case that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Lender; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Lender shall pay an amount to that Guarantor which that Lender determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Guarantor. Upon the request of the Guarantor, the relevant Lender will use its reasonable endeavours (to the extent commercially practicable and legally permitted) to recover such Tax Credit.
 
 
 
After the Amendment Date, each Lender shall promptly give notice to the Guarantors (through the Security Agent) if it becomes aware that circumstances have occurred as a result of which it is not a Qualifying Lender.
 
If any amount is received by the Security Agent in a currency other than that in which the relevant obligation or liability of that Guarantor was payable (the "") (whether pursuant to a judgment, in the Insolvency of that Guarantor or otherwise), such obligation or liability shall be discharged only to the extent that an Agent is able, upon receipt of such amount, to purchase the Required Currency with such other currency in accordance with the usual banking procedures of the Security Agent. If the amount in the Required Currency which may be so purchased is, after deducting any costs of exchange and any other related costs, less than the amount of the relevant obligation or liability, the relevant Guarantor shall, as a separate and independent obligation and notwithstanding any time or other indulgence granted to that Guarantor or any other act, matter or thing, forthwith pay to the Security Agent the amount of the shortfall.
Required Currency
 
 
So long as any of the Guarantors' Liabilities remain outstanding or capable of arising each of the Guarantors waives all rights of subrogation and indemnity against the Borrower and any Other Surety and agrees that it shall not exercise any rights which it may have by reason of performance by it of its obligations hereunder and under the other Finance Documents and it shall not, except as may be directed by the Security Agent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Subordination Agreement, nothing contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall prevent FoundryCo from receiving any payments due to it pursuant to the Project Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent, no administrator, receiver, insolvency trustee, bankruptcy examiner, liquidator or similar officer or official has been appointed with respect to a Guarantor, any Material Subsidiary or any Relevant Subsidiary or any of their assets and (to the best of its knowledge and belief) no petition by a third party or proceeding for any such appointment is pending nor has any resolution for any such appointment been passed.
 
The obligations expressed to be assumed by a Guarantor and each Relevant Subsidiary in each Transaction Document to which it is a party are, subject to any general principles of law limiting its obligations which are specifically referred to in any legal opinion delivered in accordance with the terms of the Facility Agreement and the conditions precedent set forth in the Finance Documents, legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligations.
 
The entry into and performance by the Guarantors and any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group that is a party to a Transaction Documents of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which any of the Guarantors and/or such other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group is a party do not and will not conflict with:
 
 
 
nor (except as provided in any Security Documents to which the Guarantor and/or such other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group is a party) result in the creation of, or oblige the Guarantor or such other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group or any of its Subsidiaries to create, any Security (other than Permitted Security) over any material part of its or any of its Subsidiaries' assets.
 
Each of the Guarantors and any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group that is a party to a Transaction Document has the power to enter into, perform and deliver, and has taken all necessary action to authorise its entry into, performance and delivery of, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated by those Transaction Documents.
 
All Authorisations (not including the EU Notification Approval) required by each of the Guarantors and any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group that is a party to a Transaction Document:
 
 
 
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, save for (i) any filings, registrations or notarisations required in relation to the Security Documents to which it is a party, which filings, registrations or notarisations will be made promptly after execution of the relevant documents and in any event within applicable time limits, or (ii) such filings, registrations or notarisations which have been obtained and effected.
 
 
 
 
To the extent that a payment by the Guarantor or any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group under a Finance Document to which it is a party is made to a Qualifying Lender and such Qualifying Lender has provided all the documentation required under applicable laws and regulations, neither the Guarantor nor such other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group is required under the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation, establishment or formation to make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any such payment.
 
Under the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation, establishment or formation of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group that is a party to a Finance Document, it is not necessary that the Finance Documents to which it is a party be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents to which it is a party or the transactions contemplated therein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower has, subject to Permitted Security, good and marketable title to or valid leases or licenses of or is otherwise entitled to use all material assets (including the Equipment acquired as at the date of this representation, but not including Intellectual Property which is subject to the provisions of Clause 17.14 () of the Facility Agreement) necessary to carry on its business as it is being conducted. In particular, the licenses granted to, and the joint ownership interests held by, the Borrower by AMD Inc. and Dutch BV 1 pursuant to the License Agreement will at any time be available to the Borrower and, in the enforcement scenarios contemplated thereby, in accordance with the terms of the Assignment Agreement, the Security Agent.
Intellectual Property Rights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The payment obligations under the Finance Documents to which each of the Guarantor and any other member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group is a party rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
Except as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through a Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no material litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency in relation to an Obligor, the Project or any Transaction Document to which such Obligor is a party which, if adversely determined, might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect have been started or (to the best of that Obligor's knowledge and belief) threatened against it.
 
 
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
Save as otherwise disclosed by an Obligor in writing to the Facility Agent or, after the Signing Date, through a Guarantor giving notice of its SEC filings, no Environmental Claim in relation to its business has been started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief) threatened against it which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Indebtedness, the Borrower has:
 
 
 
Save for any Permitted Security:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Information Memorandum that results in the information contained therein about any member of the Group or the FoundryCo Group being untrue or misleading in any material respect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date of the Business Plan that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , AMD Inc. makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the date that the most recent Management Plan was delivered to the Facility Agent that results in the information contained therein being untrue or misleading in any material respect; , it makes no representation or warranty in relation to any information provided by a third party and denoted as such.
provided however
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neither a Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries has entered into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
Each Guarantor has disclosed in writing to the Facility Agent all material information in its possession relating to the Project, including all Project Documents and other material agreements.
 
The Guarantors and each Relevant Subsidiary have at all times complied in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it where failure to do so could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
No Guarantor has taken from the Borrower or any Other Surety any Security in respect of the Guarantors' liability hereunder or in respect of any other obligation or liability which the Borrower has or may at any time have to a Guarantor as a result of performance by a Guarantor of its obligations under this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
each comprising of its balance sheet, profit and loss account and cash flow statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the case may be, and, if required to be delivered with the audited financial statements delivered pursuant to paragraph (a) of Clause 11.1 (), confirmed by the Auditors.
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the case may be, as fairly representing its financial condition as at the date as at which those financial statements were drawn up (in the case of unaudited financial statements, subject to normal year end adjustments).
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors shall supply (or shall cause the Borrower to supply, in which case the obligations of the relevant Guarantor under this Clause 11.4 shall be deemed to have been satisfied) to the Facility Agent (in sufficient copies for all the Lenders, if the Facility Agent so requests) and, in the case of paragraph (e) below, to the Federal/State Guarantors, each case in relation to the Guarantor:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and shall ensure that its senior management is available once a year for the purpose of a meeting with the Lenders and the Facility Agent in relation thereto.
 
 
 
 
The covenants in this Clause 12 will remain in force from the date of this Guarantee Agreement until all of the Guarantors' Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and as long as any Commitment is in force.
 
In this Clause 12:
"" means, with respect to any fiscal period of AMD Inc., AMD Inc.'s net income after provision for income taxes for such fiscal period, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP and reported on the financial statements of AMD Inc. (as such financial statements are required to be delivered to the Facility Agent hereunder), but excluding any unaudited year end financial statements, for such period, excluding any and all of the following included in such net income:
Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means all of AMD Inc.'s assets, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP, except:
Adjusted Tangible Assets
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, at any relevant time, (a) the book value (after deducting related depreciation, obsolescence, amortisation, valuation and other proper reserves as determined in accordance with US GAAP) at which the Adjusted Tangible Assets would be shown on a balance sheet of AMD Inc. at such time prepared on a consolidated basis in accordance with US GAAP less (b) the amount at which AMD Inc.'s liabilities would be shown on such consolidated balance sheet, including as liabilities all reserves for contingencies and other potential liabilities which would be required to be shown on such balance sheet; provided that any and all contributions under the Participations shall not be treated as indebtedness at any time.
Adjusted Tangible Net Worth
"" means, on a consolidated basis for any period, Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations for such period plus, to the extent deducted in computing such Adjusted Net Earnings from Operations, the sum of:
EBITDA
 
 
 
"" means all assets and liabilities, howsoever arising, which are due to the Borrower from, which are due from the Borrower to, or which otherwise arise from any transaction by the Borrower with, AMD Inc., FoundryCo or any Subsidiary of AMD Inc. or FoundryCo.
Intercompany Accounts
 
From and after the first date, if any, on which Group Consolidated Cash is less than:
 
AMD Inc. will maintain Adjusted Tangible Net Worth, determined as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, of not less than USD1,750,000,000.
 
From and after the first date, if any, on which Group Consolidated Cash is less than:
 
AMD Inc. will maintain EBITDA as of the last day of each four consecutive fiscal quarters in an amount not less than USD850,000,000.
 
The financial covenants set out in this Clause 12 shall be tested by reference to each of the financial statements and each Compliance Certificate delivered pursuant to Clause 11.1 () and Clause 11.2 ().
Financial Statements
Compliance Certificate
 
The undertakings in this Clause 13 remain in force from the date of this Guarantee Agreement until all of the Guarantors' Liabilities have been paid, discharged or performed in full and as long as any Commitment is in force.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors shall comply in all material respects with any law or regulation applicable to it where failure to comply could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect on the Guarantor.
 
AMD Inc. shall not make, or take any steps to make, any substantial change to the general nature of its business from that of engaging in the Group Permitted Business, and FoundryCo shall not make, or take any steps to make, any substantial change to the general nature of its business from that of engaging in the FoundryCo Group Permitted Business.
 
Each of the Guarantors shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors shall:
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors shall obtain and maintain all requisite Environmental Licenses required in relation to its business and comply in all material respects with:
 
 
 
in each case where failure to do so would or might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Each of the Guarantors shall inform the Facility Agent in writing as soon as reasonably practicable upon its becoming aware of:
 
 
where the claim might, if determined against that Material Subsidiary or Relevant Subsidiary, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents will rank at least with the claims of all its unsecured and unsubordinated creditors except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to creditors or certain types of creditors generally.
pari passu
 
Each of the Guarantors shall comply in all material respects with and perform all of its obligations under the Transaction Documents to which it is a party.
 
None of the Guarantors shall amend, vary, novate, supplement or terminate any Transaction Document to which it is a party and to which a Finance Party is not a party, or waive any right thereunder, except for:
 
 
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Project Documents or required by or permitted under any Finance Document, none of the Guarantors shall, and each of the Guarantors shall ensure that none of its Relevant Subsidiaries shall, assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Project Documents.
 
Each of the Guarantors shall at all times have its accounts and those of the Relevant Subsidiaries audited by the Auditors.
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors will comply and will procure that each Relevant Subsidiary will comply with all the terms of the Federal/State Guarantee Decision which directly apply to it.
 
FoundryCo shall at all times make (or shall cause another member of the FoundryCo Group to make) payments to the Borrower, or otherwise provide funds to the Borrower, in each case without delay in the amount of any Cash Shortfalls, by way of equity contributions, Subordinated Loans or, as the case may be, prepayment for products and/or services (not in excess, however, of FoundryCo's obligations under this Guarantee Agreement, the Subordinated Loan Agreements, the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Partnership Agreement, and not giving rise to any right of any person to enforce the relevant funding arrangements).
 
Neither Guarantor shall enter into any agreement or obligation:
 
 
 
Neither Guarantor will take from the Borrower or any Other Surety any Security in respect of the Guarantor's liability hereunder or in respect of any other obligation or liability which the Borrower has or may at any time have to the Guarantor as a result of performance by the Guarantor of its obligations under this Guarantee Agreement. If any such Security is taken from the Borrower or any Other Surety, and any monies or other property or assets are received or recovered by a Guarantor in pursuance of, or in breach of, any of the provisions of Clause 9 (), it shall be held on trust () for the Security Agent to secure the Guarantors' liability hereunder, and upon request by the Security Agent the relevant Guarantor will forthwith deposit such Security with the Security Agent or as it may direct or pay or transfer such monies or other property or assets to the Security Agent for application in or towards the discharge of the Guarantors' Liabilities.
Claims by Guarantor
treuhnderisch halten
 
FoundryCo will ensure that the Borrower complies with all its obligations under Clause 16 (), Clause 20 () (in particular, those under Clause 20.35 ()) and Clause 35 () of the Facility Agreement.
Costs and Expenses
General Undertakings
Subsidies
The Federal State Guarantee
 
The Guarantors will ensure that all measures described in the Step Plan will be implemented in the form and at the time as set out therein.
 
The Security Agent may (in addition to any other right to which it may be entitled), if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or the Loans have been accelerated, without notice to any of the Guarantors or any other person, setoff and apply any credit balance (or any part thereof in such amounts as it may elect) on any account (whether such account is subject to notice or not and whether matured or not and in whatever currency) of a Guarantor with it and any other monies owing by it to a Guarantor against any liabilities (whether present or future, actual or contingent) of that Guarantor to it, and it may purchase with the monies standing to the credit of any such account such other currencies as may be necessary for this purpose.
 
Neither Agent is obliged to furnish to a Guarantor any information in respect of the Facility Agreement and/or the Guarantors' Liabilities.
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax, letter or telex.
 
The address, fax number and telex number (and the department or officer, if any, for whose attention the communication is to be made) of the Guarantor, the Security Agent and the Facility Agent for any communication or document to be made or delivered under or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any substitute address, fax number, telex number or department or officer of its as a Guarantor may notify to an Agent (or an Agent may notify to the Guarantors, if a change is made by such Agent) by not less than five (5) Business Days' notice.
 
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause 16.2 (), if addressed to that department or officer.
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Guarantors confirms that it has taken, and will continue to take, all necessary steps to ensure that any amount claimed by an Agent from it hereunder can be transferred to it immediately, free of any deduction, cost or charges whatsoever.
 
If, at any time, any provision of this Guarantee Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
No amendment or modification of or to any provision of this Guarantee Agreement, including, without limitation, this Clause 19, shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by or on behalf of each party hereto.
 
This Guarantee Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties to this Guarantee Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
 
None of the Guarantors shall assign or otherwise transfer the benefit of this Guarantee Agreement or any of its rights, duties or obligations under this Guarantee Agreement without the prior written consent of the Security Agent.
 
Each Agent may assign or transfer all or any part of the benefits of this Guarantee Agreement and any of its rights, duties and obligations under this Guarantee Agreement without the consent of any Guarantor and for such purposes each Agent may disclose, in accordance with the terms of the Facility Agreement, to a potential assignee or transferee such information about a Guarantor, this Guarantee Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Guarantee Agreement as it considers appropriate.
 
This Guarantee Agreement shall remain binding on the Guarantors notwithstanding any change in the constitution of an Agent, a Guarantor or the Borrower or its absorption in, amalgamation with or merger into, or the acquisition of all or part of its undertaking by any other person, to the intent that the security created by this Guarantee Agreement shall remain valid and effective in all respects in favour of any assignee or successor in title of an Agent in the same manner as if such assignee or successor in title had been named as a party to this Guarantee Agreement instead of, or in addition to, such Agent and (as the case may be) on or in respect of the obligations and liabilities of any successor entity to a Guarantor or the Borrower in the same manner as if such successor entity had been named in this Guarantee Agreement instead of, or in addition to, a Guarantor or the Borrower respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
This Guarantee Agreement is governed by German law.
 
 
The District Court of Frankfurt am Main has exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee Agreement (including a dispute regarding the existence, validity or termination of this Guarantee Agreement).
 
Each of the Guarantors irrevocably appoints the Borrower of Wilschdorfer Landstrasse 101, 01109 Dresden, Germany as its agent to receive and acknowledge on its behalf service of any writ, summons, order, judgment or other notice of legal process in Germany. If for any reason the agent named above (or its successor) no longer serves as agent of a Guarantor for this purpose, that Guarantor shall promptly appoint a successor agent approved by the Agents and notify both Agents thereof. Until an Agent receives such notification, it shall be entitled to treat the agent named above (or its said successor) as the agent of each Guarantor for the purposes of this Clause. Each of the Guarantors agrees that any such legal process shall be sufficiently served on it if delivered to such agent for service at its address for the time being in Germany whether or not such agent gives notice thereof to the relevant Guarantor.
This Guarantee Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Guarantee Agreement.
 
 
Dear Sirs
Guarantee agreement dated 21 April 2004, as last amended on [ - ] (the "Guarantee Agreement")
 
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, we confirm that the financial covenants set out in Clause 12 () [] been complied with during the period in question.
Financial Covenants
have/have not
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs
Guarantee agreement dated 21 April 2004 as last amended on [ - ] (the "Guarantee Agreement")
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Attachment
Monthly report containing unaudited Group cash balances.*
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT (this "" and as referred to herein, this ""), dated as of March 2, 2009 is entered into by and among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly-owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi ("") (each of Discovery and Oyster being a "" and together the ""), and The Foundry Company, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo are sometimes referred to herein as the "", and each individually as a "".
Shareholders' Agreement
Agreement
Discovery
Oyster
Shareholder
Shareholders
FoundryCo
Parties
Party
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto are parties to the Master Transaction Agreement that provides, among other things, for the formation of FoundryCo under the laws of the Cayman Islands to act as the holding company for a joint venture between Discovery and Oyster;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement and immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement, Discovery has contributed or caused its Subsidiaries to contribute to FoundryCo, and FoundryCo has acquired from Discovery and its Subsidiaries, the FoundryCo Assets in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Discovery (or a Subsidiary of Discovery) of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement and immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement, Oyster (i) has contributed cash to FoundryCo in consideration of the issuance by FoundryCo to Oyster of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement and the issuance of the Initial Convertible Notes and (ii) has contributed cash to Discovery in consideration of the transfer by Discovery to Oyster of an amount of Shares as stated in the Master Transaction Agreement; and
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo will have entered into the Funding Agreement pursuant to which Oyster has committed to, and Discovery has the option to, make additional capital contributions, in accordance with the terms thereof, to FoundryCo in exchange for additional Preferred Shares and/or Additional Convertible Notes.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01
Certain Defined Terms
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings referred to or ascribed to such terms in Appendix A.
SECTION 1.02
Interpretation and Rules of Construction
In this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise provided or that the context otherwise requires:
(a) when a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or a Schedule or Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;
(b) the table of contents and headings for this Agreement are for reference purposes only and do not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(c) whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(d) the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
(e) all terms defined in this Agreement have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein;
(f) the definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms;
(g) whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms;
(h) any Law defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such Law or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws, and any rules and regulations promulgated under such Laws;
(i) any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days;
(j) references to a Person are also to its successors and permitted assigns; and
(k) the use of "or" is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise.
SECTION 2.01
Share Capital
The share capital of FoundryCo Outstanding as of the date hereof shall consist of (i) two (2) Class A Ordinary Shares, one each issued to Discovery and Oyster, respectively; (ii) no Class B Ordinary Shares; (iii) one million three hundred nine thousand one hundred forty (1,309,140) Class A Preferred Shares and (iv) eight hundred seventy-two thousand seven hundred sixty (872,760) Class B Preferred Shares. The rights of the holders of the Class A Ordinary Shares, the Class B Ordinary Shares, the Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares are as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
SECTION 2.02
Voting
(a) In accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association, prior to the Reconciliation Event, the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares shall be non-voting and only the Class A Ordinary Shares shall have voting rights of one vote per Class A Ordinary Share. Discovery and Oyster shall each be a holder of one Class A Ordinary Share and FoundryCo shall not issue any additional Class A Ordinary Shares. Following the Reconciliation Event and in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Class A Ordinary Shares shall be automatically redeemed and the voting rights of the Class A Preferred Shares, the Class B Preferred Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares shall be given effect.
 
(b) Subject to the provisions set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and this , each Shareholder then entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo shall have the right to vote all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof.
Section 2.02
SECTION 2.03
Board of Directors
(a) Prior to the Reconciliation Event, the Board shall consist of eight Directors, and Discovery and Oyster, each as a holder of one Class A Ordinary Share, shall each be entitled to designate for nomination four (4) Directors. Prior to the Reconciliation Event, no Officers of FoundryCo shall sit on the Board.
(b) Following the Reconciliation Event, the number of Persons a Shareholder may designate for nomination to serve as a Director shall be subject to adjustment according to the percentage of Fully Diluted Shares held by such Shareholder as follows: (i) a Shareholder holding 30% or more but less than 40% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate three (3) Directors; (ii) a Shareholder holding 20% or more but less than 30% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate two (2) Directors; (iii) a Shareholder holding 10% or more but less than 20% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall be entitled to designate one (1) Director and (iv) a Shareholder holding less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares shall have no right pursuant to this Agreement to designate Persons for nomination to serve as Directors. To the extent the number of Directors a Shareholder shall be entitled to nominate is reduced pursuant to this , then, so long as any other Shareholder owns at least a majority of the Fully Diluted Shares, such other Shareholder shall be entitled to designate all of the remaining Directors.
Section 2.03(b)
(c) Each Shareholder shall make the nominations to which it is entitled hereunder at least fifteen (15) days prior to each general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo or, if FoundryCo elects not to hold a general meeting of shareholders, on or prior to the date on which FoundryCo's shareholders shall adopt a written resolution with respect to the foregoing matters. Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any general meeting of shareholders, or adopt a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of electing to the Board the nominees of Discovery and Oyster designated pursuant to and .
Sections 2.03(a)
(b)
(d) Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Discovery and Oyster, the Chairman of the Board shall be a non-voting position held by a non-Director and the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall include: (i) providing guidance regarding the long-term strategy of FoundryCo; (ii) developing external relationships with governmental organizations, customers and suppliers; (iii) representing FoundryCo at industry forums; (iv) shaping the agenda for the Board with input from Oyster and Discovery; and (v) overseeing and driving the preparation phase of the Abu Dhabi fab build-out.
(e) No member of the Board shall (i) have the ability to act unilaterally; (ii) veto any action of the Board or (iii) have the casting vote with respect to any matter to be voted upon by the Board.
(f) Board meetings may be called by any Board member upon three (3) days' written notice to all other Board members. Such notice shall include a written agenda for the subjects to be considered at such meeting. The Board may not act on any subject not specified in such agenda except (i) after receiving written waivers of such notice from all Board members who were not given such notice and were not present at such meeting or (ii) upon such written consent or vote (including for such purposes, any express recusals) as may be required for such matters under this Agreement, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable Law, including the affirmative vote or express abstentions from voting of those Board members who were not given such notice.
 
(g) The Board shall conduct meetings no less frequently than quarterly and at such locations as a majority of the members of the Board deem appropriate.
(h) Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board by means of a conference telephone or other communication equipment through which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, which shall be provided at all Board meetings if requested by a Director, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
SECTION 2.04
Removal of Board Members; Vacancies
(a) A Shareholder may at any time elect to remove or dismiss any member of the Board appointed or nominated by such Shareholder pursuant to , with or without cause. Upon such election, each other Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of the removal or dismissal of any such Board member. In the event that the number of members of the Board nominated by a Shareholder exceeds the number that such Shareholder has the right to nominate pursuant to , such Shareholder shall promptly take all appropriate action to cause any such extra members of the Board nominated by such Shareholder to immediately resign or alternatively shall take such measures as are necessary to remove or dismiss such extra members.
Section 2.03
Section 2.03
(b) In the event that a vacancy occurs on the Board as a result of the retirement, removal, dismissal, resignation, disability or death of a member thereof nominated pursuant to , such vacancy shall be filled by a person nominated by the Shareholder whose nominee's retirement, removal, dismissal, resignation, disability or death created such vacancy. Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares of which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of the election of any person so nominated to fill a vacancy on the Board.
Section 2.03
(c) Each Shareholder hereby agrees that it will not vote (or execute any written resolutions with respect to) any Shares of which it is the registered holder or any other Shares for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof in favor of the removal, dismissal or suspension of any member of the Board that any other Shareholder had the right to nominate unless such other Shareholder shall have consented to or requested such removal or dismissal in writing.
SECTION 2.05
Committees
(a) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that there shall be established a people/compensation committee of the Board (the ""), which shall make recommendations to the full Board for matters including, but not limited to, management compensation, and the adoption of or amendment to FoundryCo benefits plans and Incentive Plans. The Board shall establish a People/Compensation Committee Charter setting forth in further detail the powers and duties of the People/Compensation Committee. The People/Compensation Committee shall initially consist of at least two (2) members of the Board, including at least one Director nominated by Discovery and at least one Director nominated by Oyster. The Chairman of the People/Compensation Committee shall be a Director nominated by Oyster initially and thereafter shall rotate annually between a Director nominated by Discovery and a Director nominated by Oyster. The People/Compensation Committee shall meet no less frequently than quarterly at such place and time as shall be determined by the People/Compensation Committee Chairman.
People/Compensation Committee
(b) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that there shall be established a finance and audit committee of the Board (the ""), which shall assist the Board in its responsibilities
Finance and Audit Committee
 
relating to reviewing financial matters generally, including, but not limited to, the accounting and financial reporting processes of FoundryCo, the audits of FoundryCo's consolidated financial statements, the qualifications of FoundryCo's independent auditor and the performance of FoundryCo's internal audit function and independent auditor. The Board shall establish a Finance and Audit Committee Charter setting forth in further detail the powers and duties of the Finance and Audit Committee. The Finance and Audit Committee shall initially consist of at least two (2) members of the Board, including at least one Director nominated by Discovery and at least one Director nominated by Oyster. The Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee shall be a Director nominated by Discovery initially and thereafter shall rotate annually between a Director nominated by Oyster and a Director nominated by Discovery. The Finance and Audit Committee shall meet no less frequently than quarterly at such place and time as shall be determined by the Finance and Audit Committee Chairman.
(c) FoundryCo and each Shareholder hereby agree that from time to time the Board may establish such other committees to assist the Board in its responsibilities, including a security committee which shall oversee FoundryCo's compliance with any security and compliance-related commitments to the U.S. government as well as the overall security of FoundryCo, including the protection of FoundryCo's technology and compliance with U.S. export control requirements.
SECTION 2.06
Officers
(a) The Shareholders shall cause the Board to approve the appointment of the following initial senior executive officers of FoundryCo: (i) Doug Grose as Chief Executive Officer; (ii) Bruce McDougall as Chief Financial Officer; and (iii) such other officers as determined and appointed by the People/Compensation Committee.
SECTION 2.07 FoundryCo shall seek additional financing, and the Shareholders shall make additional capital contributions, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Additional Financings.
SECTION 2.08
Certain Other Corporate Actions
(a) At all times, subject to and , FoundryCo shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, take (either directly or by amendment, merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) (and each Shareholder agrees to vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders against (and to refuse to execute a written resolution that seeks the authority to approve)) any action not in the ordinary course of business, unless the Board shall first have approved such action by Majority Vote; , , that the Board may by resolution require prior notification or the Board's prior approval for any actions to be taken in the ordinary course of business; , that in the event a matter which would otherwise require approval under this has been expressly included in either the Five-Year Capital Plan or the Annual Business Plan, which has been approved by the Board or the Shareholders in accordance with this Agreement and the Funding Agreement, as applicable, no further Board approval shall be required hereunder.
Section 2.08(b)
Section 6.01(b)
provided
however
provided further
Section 2.08
(b) In addition to such authorizations or approvals by the Board or shareholders as may be required by applicable Law, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or the constituent documents of each of FoundryCo's Subsidiaries or the other provisions of this Agreement, and subject to and , FoundryCo shall not, and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to, take (either directly or by amendment, merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) (and each Shareholder agrees to vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability
Section 6.01(b)
Section 7.01(b)(i)
 
to control or direct the voting thereof at any meeting of shareholders against (and to refuse to execute a written resolution that seeks the authority to approve)) any of the following actions, unless all of the members of the Board shall have first approved such action:
(i) implementing material changes in the purpose or scope of FoundryCo's activities or engaging in any material activity unrelated to FoundryCo's business that materially adversely affects FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
(ii) a change in the number of Directors on the Board;
(iii) the amendment or restatement of its constituent documents;
(iv) any transaction resulting in a change of control of FoundryCo or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries other than to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or, following termination of the Restricted Period, to a Permitted Transferee; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(v) the entering into of any acquisition, joint venture, divestiture, transfer, sale, assignment, lease, license or disposal of any property or asset, real, personal or mixed (including leasehold interests and intangible assets), which have a value in excess of $25 million singly or $50 million in the aggregate other than with FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or, following termination of the Restricted Period, to a Permitted Transferee; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(vi) approval of any material amendment, modification or revision to the initial Five-Year Capital Plan;
(vii) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto;
(viii) the authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Shares or other equity interest (or option, warrant, conversion or similar right with respect to any equity interest) in or of FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or any Incentive Plan;
(ix) the declaration, making or payment of any dividend, distribution or transfer (whether in cash, securities or other property) to shareholders;
(x) the entering into or the amendment of (A) any of the Transaction Documents, (B) any Incentive Plan or (C) any agreement, contract or arrangement by FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to pay or is entitled to receive payments in excess of $15 million over the term of such contract;
(xi)(A) the sale, license, sublicense, assignment, transfer, termination or other disposition of any Intellectual Property right owned by or licensed to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) any amendment of any license from or to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries of any Intellectual Property, or (C) any covenants or agreements not to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of any Intellectual Property, other than any of the foregoing in the ordinary course of the business of FoundryCo or, with respect to any of the foregoing involving a Subsidiary of FoundryCo, the business of such Subsidiary;
(xii) the prosecution, commencement or settlement of any litigation or administrative action for an amount in excess of $10 million in any such prosecution, commencement or settlement or series of related prosecutions, commencements or settlements or waiving or relinquishing any material rights or claims;
(xiii) the making of any loan, investment or expenditure (or series of related expenditures) not reflected in the Annual Business Plan involving more than $5 million singly or $10 million in the aggregate;
(xiv) the incurrence of any indebtedness or subjecting any of its properties or assets to any lien, claim or encumbrance or the giving of any material guarantee or indemnity, in each case to the extent not reflected
 
in the Annual Business Plan, which would result in an increase of 5% or more of the total indebtedness contemplated in the Annual Business Plan;
(xv) the consummation of any Public Offering of securities;
(xvi) the appointment or termination of FoundryCo's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer;
(xvii) the determination of when the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
(xviii) the entering into of any transaction, agreement or arrangement between FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any Officer, Director, Affiliate or Shareholder, on the other hand, (other than the transactions provided for in or contemplated by the Transaction Documents) unless the total consideration expected to be paid or received by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as whole as a result of such transaction or proposed change or waiver shall not exceed $25 million; and
(xix) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (i) - (xviii).
(c) In the event of an inconsistency between FoundryCo's Articles of Association and this Agreement, the Shareholders shall exercise their voting rights to amend the Articles of Association to remove such inconsistency.
SECTION 2.09
Acknowledgment Regarding Fiduciary Duties
Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, create or impose any fiduciary duty on any of the Shareholders (in their capacity as a holder of Shares) or their respective Affiliates.
SECTION 2.10
Delivery of Notice for General Meeting and Board Meeting
In addition to any other manner of delivery permitted by the Memorandum and Articles of Association, each Shareholder consents to the delivery of notices of any general meeting of shareholders of FoundryCo by electronic mail at the address and upon the terms set forth in for such Party. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Shareholder may withdraw such consent or change the applicable electronic mail address for purposes of such Shareholder notices at any time upon written notice to FoundryCo without the approval of any other Party hereto.
Section 8.02
SECTION 3.01
General Rules
(a) For purposes of this , Securities held by Discovery shall include any Securities held by any Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Discovery and Securities held by Oyster shall include any Securities held by any Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Oyster, and any offers or acceptances to purchase or sell Securities made to or by Discovery or Oyster shall have been deemed to have been made to or by the respective Permitted Transferees or any other transferees (other than a transferee pursuant to a Public Sale) of Discovery or Oyster.
Article III
(b) No Shareholder shall, directly or indirectly, make or solicit any Sale of Securities, or create, incur, solicit or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities, except in compliance with this Agreement and any applicable securities laws.
 
(c) Each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof at any such meeting of shareholders, or execute a written resolution with respect to all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of any resolution to procure any transfer in compliance with the provisions of this and to prohibit any transfer not in compliance with this . The Shareholders shall cause the members of the Board to vote in accordance with the provisions of this .
Article III
Article III
Article III
(d) Immediately prior to the IPO, the Convertible Notes shall convert into Class A Preferred Shares or Class B Preferred Shares, as applicable, and all Preferred Shares shall convert into Class B Ordinary Shares, in each case pursuant to the terms thereof.
SECTION 3.02
General Restrictions on Transfer
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that the Class A Ordinary Shares are non-transferable.
(b) Each Shareholder agrees that, without the consent of the other Shareholder, it will not participate in any Sale of Securities if (i) prior to the Reconciliation Event, such Sale of Securities would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; (ii) such Sale of Securities is made to Intel Corporation ("") or any Affiliates of Intel or (iii) such Sale of Securities is made to any competitor of FoundryCo.
Intel
SECTION 3.03
Certain Restrictions on Transfer
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that, prior to the earliest of (i) March 2, 2019, (ii) such time as the Abu Dhabi cluster is operational with a steady-state yield and volumes of at least seventy-five thousand (75,000) Wafer Starts on Qualified Processes per month, as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, or (iii) the termination of the Transition Period under the Funding Agreement (the ""), it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities, or create, incur or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities held by such Shareholder, or enter into any other transaction pursuant to which it or any of its Permitted Transferees shall receive any consideration in cash or other property in connection with such Securities (other than as a distribution thereon by FoundryCo), other than:
Restricted Period
(i) with the prior written consent of the other Shareholder;
(ii) any Sale of Securities to (A) a Permitted Transferee in compliance with the provisions of this , or (B) the other Shareholder;
Article III
(iii) each of Discovery and Oyster (and any of their Permitted Transferees holding Shares) shall be entitled to sell up to 25% of its Fully Diluted Shares (measured at the time of the IPO) in the IPO; , , that any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo shall be given first priority to be included in the IPO and as among the Shareholders wishing to sell Securities, the number of Securities to be included in the IPO shall be allocated pro rata based on the amount of Securities each Shareholder (and its Permitted Transferees) proposes to sell; , that any Securities to be included in the IPO on behalf of Discovery and Oyster and their respective Permitted Transferees shall be given priority over any other Shareholder or any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries; , that, with respect only to Discovery or any of its Permitted Transferees, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
provided
however
provided further
and provided further
(iv) in each year following the IPO, each of Discovery and Oyster (and any of their Permitted Transferees holding Shares) shall be entitled to sell up to an equal amount of its Fully Diluted Shares as permitted under pursuant to (A) a Public Offering, or (B) an offering exempt from registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or similar non-U.S. applicable Law, if any, , that any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo shall be given first priority to
Section 3.03(a)(iii)
provided, however
 
be included in any such Public Offering and as among the Shareholders wishing to sell Securities, the number of Securities to be included in any such Public Offering shall be allocated pro rata based on the amount of Securities each Shareholder (and its Permitted Transferees) proposes to sell; , that any Securities to be included in any such Public Offering on behalf of Discovery and Oyster and their respective Permitted Transferees shall be given priority over any other Shareholder or any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries; , that, with respect only to Discovery or any of its Permitted Transferees, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred;
provided further
and provided further
(v) in each year following the IPO, including the year of the IPO, (A) with respect to Discovery, to pledge up to an equal amount of Fully Diluted Shares as permitted for sale under ; , that, this right shall be suspended until the Reconciliation Event has occurred, and (B) with respect to Oyster, to pledge up to all of its Fully Diluted Shares; or
Section 3.03(a)(iii)
provided however
(vi) any Sale of Securities by Oyster or its Permitted Transferees pursuant to .
Section 5.01
(b) Each Shareholder agrees that, following the end of the Restricted Period, it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities, or create, incur or assume any Encumbrance with respect to any Securities held by such Shareholder, or enter into any other transaction pursuant to which it or any of its Permitted Transferees shall receive any consideration in cash or other property in connection with such Securities (other than as a distribution thereon by FoundryCo) other than (i) pursuant to the exceptions set forth in above or (ii) any Sale of Securities for cash or readily marketable securities that is made in compliance with the procedures, and subject to the limitations, set forth in , , and .
Section 3.03(a)
Sections 3.05
3.06
3.07
3.08
SECTION 3.04
Permitted Transferees
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Sale of Securities may be made to a Permitted Transferee. However, no Sale of Securities to a Permitted Transferee shall be effective if a purpose or effect of such transfer shall have been to circumvent the provisions of this . Each Shareholder shall remain responsible for the performance of this Agreement by each Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder to which Securities are transferred. If any Permitted Transferee to which Securities are transferred in accordance with this ceases to be a Permitted Transferee of the Shareholder from which or whom it acquired such Securities, such Person shall reconvey such Securities to such transferring Shareholder immediately before such Person ceases to be a Permitted Transferee of such transferring Shareholder so long as such Person knows of its upcoming change of status immediately prior thereto. If such change of status is not known until after its occurrence, the former Permitted Transferee shall make such transfer to such transferring Shareholder as soon as practicable after the former Permitted Transferee receives notice thereof.
Article III
Article III
(b) Each Permitted Transferee shall enter into a joinder agreement pursuant to .
Section 3.09(a)
SECTION 3.05
Right of First Offer
(a) The provisions of this shall survive the IPO.
Section 3.05
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , if at any time during the term of this Agreement, a Shareholder (the "") desires to effect a Sale of Securities to a Third Party or Third Parties, the Prospective Seller shall deliver a written notice (an "") thereof to FoundryCo and the other Shareholder (the ""), which notice shall set forth all of the material terms and conditions, including the number of Securities proposed to be sold (the "") and the proposed purchase price per Share (the "") (which shall be payable solely in cash or freely marketable securities in one lump sum payment), on which the Prospective Seller offers to sell the Offered Securities to FoundryCo and the Other Shareholder (the "").
Section 3.03(b)
Prospective Seller
Offer Notice
Other Shareholder
Offered Securities
Offer Price
Offer
(c) The receipt of an Offer Notice by the Other Shareholder shall constitute an offer by the Prospective Seller to sell to the Other Shareholder. Such Offer shall be irrevocable for thirty (30) days (the "")
Offer Period
 
after receipt of such Offer Notice by the Other Shareholder. During the Offer Period, the Other Shareholder shall have the right to accept such offer as to any or all of the Offered Securities by giving a written notice of acceptance (the "") to the Prospective Seller prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, which notice shall specify the number of Offered Securities to be purchased by the Other Shareholder. Alternatively, if the threshold set forth in is met, the Other Shareholder shall have the right and option to notify the Prospective Seller of the Other Shareholder's interest in selling along with the Prospective Seller to a Third Party (the "") pursuant to .
Notice of Acceptance
Section 3.07(b)
Tag Along Offer
Section 3.07
(d) The consummation of any such purchase by and sale to the Other Shareholder shall take place not later than ten (10) days after the expiration of the Offer Period (unless a later date shall be required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law). Upon the consummation of such purchase and sale, the Prospective Seller shall (i) deliver to the Other Shareholder the Securities purchased, free and clear of any Encumbrances (other than this Agreement and applicable Law) and (ii) assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to such Securities against payment of the purchase price contained in the Offer.
(e) In the event that (i) the Other Shareholder shall not have elected during the Offer Period to purchase all the Offered Securities or (ii) the Other Shareholder shall have failed to consummate a purchase of Securities with respect to which a Notice of Acceptance was given, the Prospective Seller shall not be obligated to sell any Offered Securities to the Other Shareholder and, subject to its obligations under and , shall have the right to sell the Offered Securities (the "") to a Third Party or Third Parties so long as all the Unaccepted Securities are sold or otherwise disposed of by the Prospective Seller (A) within ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Offer Period or such longer period (up to the maximum period permitted by applicable Law) as would be required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law, and (B) at a price not less than the Offer Price included in the Offer Notice.
Section 3.06
3.07
Unaccepted Securities
SECTION 3.06
Right of Last Look
(a) The provisions of this shall survive the IPO.
Section 3.06
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , a Prospective Seller shall not consummate any Sale of Securities to a Third Party without offering in writing at least ten (10) Business Days prior to the consummation of the Sale of Securities, the Other Shareholder the right to acquire the Offered Securities for the purchase price set forth in this and otherwise on the terms and conditions offered by the Third Party (the ""). The Last Look Notice shall contain (i) the name and address of the Third Party and any Person who controls such Third Party, (ii) the proposed amount and form of consideration to be delivered by the Third Party in the transaction and a calculation of the purchase price applicable to the Other Shareholder, (iii) the material terms of such transaction, and (iv) the proposed closing date. The Other Shareholder shall have five (5) Business Days to notify the Prospective Seller of its intentions to purchase the Securities on the terms and conditions set forth above (the "");
Section 3.03(b)
Section 3.06
Last Look Notice
Last Look Acceptance Notice
(c) To the extent that the Other Shareholder elects not to exercise its purchase right under this or does not timely deliver a Last Look Acceptance Notice, the Prospective Seller shall be permitted to consummate its transaction with the Third Party not later than five (5) Business Days after the expiration of the period of time for the Other Shareholder to deliver the Last Look Acceptance Notice. Alternatively, if the Other Shareholder timely delivers the Last Look Acceptance Notice, the Other Shareholder must consummate the acquisition of Securities on or before the proposed closing date identified in the Last Look Notice.
Section 3.06
SECTION 3.07
Tag-Along Rights
(a) The provisions of this shall terminate upon the IPO.
Section 3.07
(b)(i) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , no Prospective Seller shall sell any Offered Securities held by it, if such Offered Securities constitute more than 10% of the then
Section 3.03(b)
 
Fully Diluted Shares, unless each Other Shareholder is provided the Offer Notice set forth in and is offered the right and option to sell pursuant to such disposition up to the same percentage of Securities held by it as the percentage of Securities held by the Prospective Seller as the Prospective Seller proposes to sell.
Section 3.05
(ii) The Other Shareholder desiring to exercise such option shall, prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, provide the Prospective Seller with a written notice specifying the number of Securities as to which such Other Shareholder (the "") has an interest in selling pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer (a ""), and shall cooperate in such manner as the Prospective Seller shall reasonably request to permit the sale of such Securities pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer.
Tag-Along Offered Securities
Tag-Along Notice of Interest
(iii) If the Third Party is unwilling to buy all of the Offered Securities, then the allocation of the Securities to be sold in the Tag-Along Offer shall be made pro rata based on the number of Securities each Shareholder proposes to sell.
(iv) Promptly after the consummation of the Sale of Securities of the Prospective Seller and the Other Shareholder to the Third Party or Parties pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer, the Prospective Seller shall remit to the Other Shareholder the total sales price of the Securities of the Other Shareholder sold pursuant thereto less the portion (based on sales price of Securities being sold by the respective parties) of the out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable legal expenses) incurred by the Prospective Seller in connection with such sale; , , that the Other Shareholder shall not be liable for any such expenses in the event that such sale is not consummated.
pro rata
provided
however
(v) If at the end of the Offer Period the Other Shareholder shall not have given a Tag-Along Notice of Interest, the Other Shareholder shall be deemed to have waived its rights under this with respect to the sale pursuant to the Tag-Along Offer with respect to which a Tag-Along Notice of Interest shall not have been given.
Section 3.07
(vi) If, at the end of the twenty (20)-day period following the giving of the Offer Notice (or such later date as is required under the HSR Act or other applicable Law), the Prospective Seller has not completed the sale of all the Tag-Along Offered Securities made available to the Prospective Seller pursuant to , the Prospective Seller shall return to the Other Shareholder all certificates and documents provided to the Prospective Seller by the Other Shareholder pursuant to ; , , that the Prospective Seller shall not be relieved of its obligation to sell the Securities of the Other Shareholder in the event that such sale is ultimately completed with such Third Party or Parties.
Section 3.07(b)(ii)
Section 3.07(b)(ii)
provided
however
(vii) Except as expressly provided in this , no Prospective Seller shall have any obligation to the Other Shareholder with respect to the sale of any Securities held by the Other Shareholder in connection with this . No Other Shareholder shall be entitled to sell and transfer Securities directly to any Third Party pursuant to a Tag-Along Offer (it being understood that all such sales shall be made only on the terms and pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3.07).
Section 3.07
Section 3.07
SECTION 3.08
Drag-Along Rights
(a) The provisions of this shall terminate upon the IPO.
Section 3.08
(b) Following the end of the Restricted Period, except as provided for in , in the event that any Shareholder that, together with its Permitted Transferees, holds at least 75% of the Fully Diluted Shares (the "") proposes to sell all of its Securities in a bona fide transaction to a Third Party, then the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have the unconditional right to effect the sale of all (but not less than all) of such Securities in either a private or public sale, at the option of the Dragging-Along Shareholder (such transaction, the ""). In such event, the Dragging-Along Shareholder may, at its option, require the other Shareholder (the "") to sell all of the Securities then held by or registered in the names of such Dragged-Along Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees ("") to the Third Party or Parties in the Drag-Along Transaction for the same consideration and otherwise on the same terms and conditions upon which the Dragging-Along Shareholder sells its Securities, subject to
Section 3.03(b)
Dragging-Along Shareholder
Drag-Along Transaction
Dragged-Along Shareholder
Drag-Along Offered Securities
 
. Each Shareholder hereby agrees that it will vote in favor of (or execute any written resolutions with respect to) any transaction required by this and to take such further actions as may be reasonably required to effect such transaction, in each case, to the extent not consistent with this Agreement. In the event of a Drag-Along Transaction, none of the provisions of and , , , and shall apply.
Section 3.08(f)
Section 3.08(b)
Sections 3.02(b)(i)
(b)(iii)
3.05
3.06
3.07
(c) The Dragging-Along Shareholder shall provide a written notice (the "") of such Drag-Along Transaction (the "") to the Dragged-Along Shareholder not later than thirty (30) days prior to the consummation of the sale contemplated by the Drag-Along Offer. The Drag-Along Notice shall contain written notice of the exercise of the Dragging-Along Shareholder's rights pursuant to , and shall identify the Third Party or Parties making the Drag-Along Offer, the consideration offered per Share and all other material terms and conditions of the Drag-Along Offer. Within twenty (20) days following the date the Drag-Along Notice is given, the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall cooperate in such manner as the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall reasonably request to permit the sale of the Securities requested from each such Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer, and shall enter into a sale agreement with respect to the sale of the Securities of the Dragging-Along Shareholder and the Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer and shall reasonably cooperate in the transfer of these Securities to the relevant Third Party; , , that the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall not be required to make any representations and warranties in such sale agreement other than with respect to the Dragged-Along Shareholder's authority to enter into the sale agreement and ownership of the Securities to be sold by the Dragged-Along Shareholder. The Company shall in connection with the transfer of the relevant Securities to the relevant Third Party request the Board to adopt a resolution to grant the approval for such transfer of Securities pursuant to the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Drag-Along Notice
Drag-Along Offer
Section 3.08(b)
provided
however
(d) Promptly after the consummation of the sale of Securities pursuant to the Drag-Along Offer and receipt of consideration therefor, the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall remit to the Dragged-Along Shareholder the sales proceeds received by the Dragging-Along Shareholders of the Securities of such Dragged-Along Shareholder sold pursuant thereto less a pro rata portion of the out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable legal expenses) incurred by the Dragging-Along Shareholder in connection with such sale; , , that the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall not be liable for any such expenses in the event that such sale is not consummated.
provided
however
(e) If, at the end of the sixty (60)-day period following the giving of the Drag-Along Notice, the Dragging-Along Shareholder has not completed the sale of all its Securities and the Securities of the Dragged-Along Shareholder pursuant to , the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall return to the Dragged-Along Shareholder such documents as it shall reasonably request, and the Dragged-Along Shareholder shall no longer be obligated to cooperate in such sale and transfer pursuant to with respect to such Drag-Along Offer.
Section 3.08(b)
Section 3.08(b)
(f) Except as expressly provided in , the Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have no obligation to the Dragged-Along Shareholder with respect to the contemplated sale of any Securities held by such Dragged-Along Shareholder in connection with this . The Dragging-Along Shareholder shall have no obligation to the Dragged-Along Shareholder to sell and transfer any Drag-Along Offered Securities pursuant to this or as a result of any decision by the Dragging-Along Shareholder not to accept or consummate any Drag-Along Offer (it being understood that any and all such decisions shall be made by the Dragging-Along Shareholder in its sole discretion). No Dragged-Along Shareholder shall be entitled to sell and transfer Securities directly to any Third Party pursuant to a Drag-Along Offer (it being understood that all such sales shall be made only on the terms and pursuant to the procedures set forth in this ).
Section 3.08(d)
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
Section 3.08
(g) Upon the consummation of a Drag-Along Transaction, all of the holders of the Securities shall receive the same form and amount of consideration per Security, respectively, taking into account and giving effect to any accrued interest, conversion ratios, liquidation preference and other provisions relating to the nature of
 
consideration, to which the holders of Securities are entitled in accordance with the terms thereof in effect immediately prior to the Drag-Along Transaction, and if any holders of Preferred Shares or Ordinary Shares are given an option as to the form and amount of consideration to be received, all holders shall be given the same option. In addition, such Shareholder shall not be required to accept consideration in a Drag-Along Transaction other than cash and/or freely-tradable equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ Stock Market and/or any other securities exchange or automated quotation system of similar caliber in the United States or elsewhere.
SECTION 3.09
Certain Persons to Execute Agreement
(a) Each Shareholder agrees that it will not, directly or indirectly, make any Sale of Securities to any Permitted Transferee or otherwise unless, prior to the consummation of any such Sale of Securities, the Person to whom such Sale of Securities is proposed to be made (a "") executes and delivers to FoundryCo and each Shareholder an agreement in the form attached hereto as whereby such Prospective Transferee confirms that, with respect to the Securities that are the subject of such Sale of Securities, it shall be deemed to be a "Shareholder" for all purposes of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by all the terms of this Agreement as a "Shareholder"; , , that such Prospective Transferee shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Agreement until such time as such Sale of Securities to such Person has been completed.
Prospective Transferee
Exhibit A
provided
however
(b) The provisions of this shall not apply to any Sale of Securities pursuant to a Public Offering or, following the IPO, pursuant to an offering exempt from registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or similar non-U.S. applicable Law (each such Sale of Securities, a "").
Section 3.09
Public Sale
SECTION 3.10
Equivalent Rights
The Shareholders acknowledge that the Board may determine that it is in the best interests of FoundryCo to effect its IPO on a securities exchange located outside of the United States. The Shareholders and FoundryCo agree that prior to any such IPO each of them shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to amend this Agreement as may be necessary to ensure that the rights of the Shareholders with respect to any Public Offerings in and following the IPO and the sale of Securities in any such Public Offerings are at least equivalent to the rights set forth in this Agreement in respect of sales of Securities in the United States.
SECTION 3.11
Put and Call Options; Fair Market Valuation
(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, in the event that a Shareholder's option pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or the Funding Agreement is triggered (i) to put any or all of the Securities held by such Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees to the other Shareholder, or (ii) to purchase any or all of the Securities held by the other Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees, such Shareholder shall have thirty (30) days from the date that it receives notification of the triggering event by the other Shareholder to deliver a written notice (the "") to the other Shareholder electing to exercise such put or call option, as appropriate, and if not so exercised within such thirty (30)-day period, such option shall lapse.
Election Notice
(b) Each Shareholder hereby covenants and agrees that where the provisions of this Agreement and the Funding Agreement indicate that the "Fair Market Value" of the Shares of FoundryCo is to be determined, such Shareholder will take all actions reasonably necessary to determine the Fair Market Value of such Shares in accordance with this .
Section 3.11(b)
(i) The Shareholder wishing to exercise its put or call option pursuant to shall designate an investment banking firm of recognized international standing within fifteen (15) days of the date of the delivery of the Election Notice to determine the Fair Market Value of such Shares. The other Shareholder shall also designate an investment banking firm of recognized international standing within the same time
Section 3.11(a)
 
period. Within thirty (30) days after appointment of both investment banking firms, each investment banking firm shall determine its initial view as to the Fair Market Value of such Shares and shall consult with one another with respect thereto. Within forty-five (45) days after appointment of both investment banking firms, each investment banking firm shall have determined its final view as to the Fair Market Value of such Shares and shall have delivered such final view to the Shareholders.
(ii) If the difference between the higher of the respective final views of the two investment banking firms and the lower of the respective final views of the two investment banking firms is less than 10% of the higher Fair Market Value, then the Fair Market Value determined shall be the average of those two views.
(iii) If the difference between the higher Fair Market Value and the lower Fair Market Value is equal to or greater than 10%, then the Shareholders shall instruct the investment banking firms to jointly designate a third investment banking firm of recognized international standing (the ""). The Mutually Designated Appraiser shall be designated within ten (10) days after the delivery of the final views of the investment banking firms pursuant to and shall within fifteen (15) days of such designation determine its final view as to the Fair Market Value. The final Fair Market Value determination shall be the Fair Market Value of the Mutually Designated Appraiser.
Mutually Designated Appraiser
Section 3.11(b)(i)
(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Shareholder does not appoint an investment banking firm within the time periods specified above, such Shareholder shall have waived its rights to appoint an investment firm and determination of the Fair Market Value shall be made solely by the Shareholder who did appoint an investment banking firm.
(c) FoundryCo shall provide reasonable access to each of the designated investment banking firms to members of management of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries and to the books and records of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries in order to allow such investment banking firms to conduct due diligence examinations in scope and duration as are customary in valuations of this kind. Each of the Shareholders and any Permitted Transferees agree to cooperate with each of the investment banking firms to provide such information as may be reasonably requested. Costs of the appraisals shall be borne equally by the Shareholders.
SECTION 4.01
Books and Records; Financial Statements
(a) At all times during the continuance of FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall prepare and maintain separate books of account for FoundryCo that shall show a true and accurate record of all assets, all liabilities, all equity, all investments by owners, all distributions to owners, all comprehensive income, all revenues, all expenses, all gains and all losses, pertaining to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. Such books of account, together with a certified copy of this Agreement and of the constituent documents of FoundryCo, shall at all times be maintained at the principal place of business of FoundryCo. The books of account and the records of FoundryCo shall be examined by and reported upon as of the end of each fiscal year by an internationally recognized independent registered public accounting firm (the ""). For such period as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the Auditors shall be the same independent registered public accounting firm that audits Discovery's consolidated financial statements. Thereafter, the Auditors shall be nominated by Oyster. Each Shareholder shall, regarding the appointment of the Auditors, vote its shares in accordance with the proposal of the Board pursuant to the foregoing sentence.
Auditors
(b) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the following financial information, in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to Discovery (with a copy to Oyster) to permit Discovery to timely consolidate FoundryCo's results
 
into Discovery's consolidated financial statements and to prepare for its quarterly earnings releases and United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("") regulatory filings at the times hereinafter set forth:
SEC
(i) Within four (4) Business Days after the end of each fiscal month (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), the following unaudited financial data:
(A) the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal month;
(B) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal month; and
(C) inventory and other sub-ledger information, including inventory unit quantities, standard costs, product attributes, and reserve calculations for such fiscal month as they pertain to Discovery. Inventory and other sub-ledger information with respect to FoundryCo's customers other than Discovery shall be provided on an aggregated basis at the level necessary for Discovery to comply with applicable SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors.
(ii) Within seven (7) Business Days after the end of each fiscal month (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant cash flow data for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal month.
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within six (6) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant information as may reasonably be requested by Discovery necessary for Discovery to prepare and discuss its quarterly earnings press release in a manner consistent with Discovery's prior practices and disclosures.
(iv) As soon as available and in any event within twelve (12) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), financial and operating data and analysis, including aggregate contractual cash obligations and aggregate unconditional purchase commitments (in each case, without disclosing the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations), necessary for Discovery to prepare its Form 10-Q in compliance with SEC rules and regulations.
(v) As soon as available and in any event within sixteen (16) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), financial and operating data and analysis, including aggregate contractual cash obligations and aggregate unconditional purchase commitments (in each case, without disclosing the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations), necessary for Discovery to prepare its Form 10-K in compliance with SEC rules and regulations.
(vi) Other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Discovery to timely comply with SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations.
provided
however
(c) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall provide financial data and assist in the quarterly review and the annual integrated financial statement audit work
 
performed by Discovery's auditors under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), including the assistance and information needed for Discovery's management representations to Discovery's auditors, and to the extent applicable, by Discovery's internal audit team, based on Discovery's reasonable timeframes and requests; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless such information is necessary for Discovery to complete its assessment of its internal control over financial reporting as required by SOX.
SOX
provided
however
(d) For as long as Discovery is required to consolidate the financial results of FoundryCo, the fiscal quarters and fiscal years of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries shall end on the same days on which the fiscal quarters and fiscal years of Discovery end.
(e) As soon as available and in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of fiscal year 2009, FoundryCo shall provide Oyster the following financial information, examined by and reported upon by the Auditors and prepared in accordance with IFRS, on the basis of converting from GAAP to IFRS, taking into consideration the material differences between GAAP and IFRS and consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies (it being understood that FoundryCo, and not the Auditors, shall ensure that such financial information is consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies):
(i) the consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(ii) at Oyster's election, either the consolidated statement of shareholders' equity or the consolidated statement of recognized income and expense of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(iii) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(iv) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(v) other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Oyster to timely comply with applicable accounting rules and regulations, including any financial information requirements of the Government of Abu Dhabi Audit Authority or similar Governmental Authority, IFRS and the reasonable requirements of Oyster's auditors (it being understood that such other data may not be examined by the Auditors).
(f) Starting with fiscal year 2010 and for as long as Oyster is required to record FoundryCo's financial results into Oyster's books in accordance with IFRS, FoundryCo shall provide Oyster the following financial information examined by and reported upon by the Auditors at the times hereinafter set forth:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of each fiscal year, the following financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies (it being understood that FoundryCo, and not the Auditors, shall ensure that such financial information is consistent with Oyster's IFRS accounting policies):
(A) the consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(B) at Oyster's election, either the consolidated statement of shareholders' equity or the consolidated statement of recognized income and expense of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(C) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(D) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(E) other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Oyster to timely comply with applicable accounting rules and regulations, including any financial information requirements of the
 
Government of Abu Dhabi Audit Authority or similar Governmental Authority, IFRS and the reasonable requirements of Oyster's auditors (it being understood that such other data may not be examined by the Auditors).
(g) For as long as Discovery is required to use the equity method of accounting to account for FoundryCo's financial results, the following financial information, in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to Discovery (with a copy to Oyster) to permit Discovery to timely account for its share of FoundryCo's operating results and to prepare for its quarterly earnings releases and regulatory filings:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within six (6) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), relevant information as may reasonably be requested by Discovery necessary for Discovery to record its share of FoundryCo's operating results and to prepare and discuss its quarterly earnings press release in a manner consistent with Discovery's prior practices and disclosures.
(ii) As soon as available and in any event within sixteen (16) Business Days after the end of each fiscal quarter (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), FoundryCo's summary balance sheet and income statement for such fiscal quarter, and other financial disclosures necessary for the preparation of Discovery's Form 10-Q in compliance with SEC rules and regulations;
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within twenty (20) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), FoundryCo's summary balance sheet and income statement for such fiscal year, and other financial disclosures necessary for the preparation of Discovery's Form 10-K in compliance with SEC rules and regulations;
(iv) Other data and representations as may be necessary to allow Discovery to timely comply with SEC rules and regulations, GAAP and the reasonable requirements of Discovery's auditors; , , that FoundryCo shall not be obligated to provide to Discovery the individual names, cost or pricing information for any of FoundryCo's customers, vendors or accounts, unless Discovery is required to disclose such information by SEC rules and regulations;
provided
however
(v) As soon as available and in any event within thirty-two (32) Business Days after the end of each fiscal year (or such longer time as the Shareholders and FoundryCo may agree to account for system changes or other events that may affect FoundryCo's ability to close its books within this time period), the following financial statements prepared in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, examined by and reported upon by the Auditors:
(A) the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries as of the close of such fiscal year;
(B) a consolidated statement of operations for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;
(C) a consolidated statement of cash flows for FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and
(D) relevant footnotes as required by SEC Regulation S-X.
The Shareholders acknowledge that the audited annual financial statements set forth in (v) above may be attached as an exhibit to Discovery's Form 10-K, as required by the SEC rules and regulations for unconsolidated significant equity investees.
 
(h) The following financial information, in reasonable detail, shall be transmitted by FoundryCo to each member of the Board and each Shareholder at the times hereinafter set forth:
(i) As soon as available and in any event within thirty (30) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Cumulative Revenue and Cumulative Gross Margin (each as defined in the Funding Agreement);
(ii) The proposed Annual Business Plan for the next fiscal year in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Funding Agreement;
(iii) As soon as available and in any event within three (3) weeks of the end of each fiscal month, monthly accounts and progress reports in a form acceptable to Discovery and Oyster, with comparisons against the projected monthly results set forth in the most recent Annual Business Plan;
(iv) Prompt notification of material developments including events that FoundryCo would be required to disclose under Form 8-K of the Exchange Act had FoundryCo been subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act; and
(v) Such other information as is reasonably requested by any Shareholder.
(i) (i) Each of Discovery and Oyster and their respective representatives may, for purposes reasonably related to their interests in FoundryCo, (A) examine and copy (at each Party's own cost and expense) the books and records of FoundryCo, including the documents referred to in Sections 4.01(b)-(h), and (B) have reasonable access, during normal business hours, to FoundryCo's management, employees, plans, properties and other assets to conduct due diligence and other reasonable investigations (including environmental assessments) regarding FoundryCo's business and the FoundryCo Assets (at each Party's own cost and expense), and FoundryCo shall reasonably cooperate with each of Discovery and Oyster in such due diligence and investigations. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in this , FoundryCo shall have the right to withhold certain customers' sensitive information from Discovery and the Discovery appointees to the Board shall recuse themselves from any discussion of such information at any Board meetings, if such request is made by a third party customer of FoundryCo.
Section 4.01
(ii) For such period as the Auditors shall also be the auditors of the consolidated financial statements of Discovery, Oyster and its representatives (including separate independent accountants) shall have the right to perform (at FoundryCo's expense, upon reasonable request by Oyster, and during normal business hours), Oyster's own (A) annual audit of FoundryCo and any of its consolidated Subsidiaries' books and records, accounting policies, internal controls processes, and other information relevant to the FoundryCo financial statements, including the documents referred to in Sections 4.01(b)-(h), and (B) quarterly review of the Auditors' workpapers, which shall be provided subject to applicable auditing and professional standards (it being understood that FoundryCo shall provide its consent for the Auditors to reasonably cooperate with respect to such review). Oyster may request the Auditors to, and the Auditors reasonably shall, provide all such requested information either verbally or in writing, at Oyster's option, and make themselves available during normal business hours to address questions related to the Auditors' workpapers, subject to applicable auditing and professional standards. In addition, Oyster shall have the right to audit or review any transaction involving FoundryCo and any of its consolidated Subsidiaries and to review policies and position papers in connection with such transaction, and to review original documents supporting such transaction (including purchase orders, invoices and signed agreements), in each case as reasonably deemed necessary and appropriate by Oyster or its representatives in order to perform such audit or review. In connection with such audit or review, FoundryCo agrees that it will reasonably cooperate and cause its Subsidiaries to reasonably cooperate with Oyster and its representatives to provide all such requested information either verbally or in writing, at Oyster's option, and to make available during normal business hours FoundryCo's and its Subsidiaries' management and employees, in each case as reasonably deemed necessary and appropriate by Oyster or its representatives in order to perform such audit or review.
(iii) FoundryCo shall make its management and employees and its business records and other documents (including the business records and documents of its management and employees) available to
 
each of Discovery and Oyster promptly upon request in connection with any litigation or investigation in which either Discovery or Oyster is involved, including making those individuals available for interviews, depositions, written declarations or testimony. Each and every FoundryCo employee that, prior to Closing, was subject to any Discovery or Oyster document preservation notice shall continue to remain subject to such notice. For each and every FoundryCo document that, prior to Closing, was subject to any Discovery or Oyster document preservation notice, FoundryCo shall continue to retain and preserve the affected records until the expiration of such notice. Discovery or Oyster, as the case may be, shall notify FoundryCo promptly of the termination of any such notice.
(j) Discovery's rights under , and shall terminate upon the later of (i) the termination of the Wafer Supply Agreement and (ii) upon such time that Discovery owns less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares. Oyster's rights under , and shall terminate upon such time that Oyster owns less than 10% of the Fully Diluted Shares.
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)(i)
(i)(ii)
Sections 4.01(h)
(i)(i)
(i)(ii)
SECTION 5.01
Discovery Change of Control Transaction
In the event of a Discovery Change of Control Transaction without Oyster's prior written consent,
(a) Discovery shall promptly notify Oyster in writing thereof, setting forth the date and circumstances of the Discovery Change of Control Transaction and the identity of the Third Party that has acquired control of Discovery;
(b) all transfer restrictions set forth herein shall cease to be applicable with respect to all Securities held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees; , that the restrictions on transfer set forth in shall remain applicable;
provided, however
Section 3.02(b)(ii)
(c) if the Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs prior to the IPO, Oyster shall have the right (x) to require FoundryCo to consummate the IPO and (y) to register the number of Securities held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees in connection with the IPO. Upon such request, each Shareholder shall vote all Shares for which such Shareholder is the registered holder or for which such Shareholder shall otherwise have the ability to control or direct the voting thereof, in favor of such matters as are necessary for approval of the shareholders of FoundryCo to effect the IPO, and FoundryCo shall be obligated to file and have declared effective a Registration Statement under the Securities Act (the "") as promptly as practicable following receipt of notice from Oyster of its intention to exercise its IPO demand (the "") pursuant to this . In the event of an IPO pursuant to this , at Oyster's election, any Securities to be included on behalf of Oyster and its Permitted Transferees in the IPO shall be given first priority, including for the avoidance of doubt, priority over any Securities to be included on behalf of FoundryCo, Discovery and its Permitted Transferees, other Shareholders and any employees of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries;
Registration Statement
IPO Demand Request
Section 5.01(c)
Section 5.01(c)
(d)(A) Oyster shall have the right to put, in accordance with , any or all of the Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Oyster and its Permitted Transferees to Discovery in exchange for cash, if the announcement of a Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs during the 24-month period commencing on the date hereof; or (B) if the Discovery Change of Control Transaction occurs after the Reconciliation Event, Oyster shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with , any or all Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Discovery and its Permitted Transferees;
Section 3.11
Section 3.11
(e) Until the end of 2013, as long as Oyster continues to own Securities, Oyster shall have the right to require Discovery or the counterparty to the Discovery Change of Control Transaction, at Oyster's election, to
 
assume such portion of Oyster's funding commitment under the Funding Agreement based on the percentage of Fully Diluted Shares held by Discovery on each "Funding Date" thereunder; , that any such counterparty shall guarantee such commitment if it does not directly assume it; and
provided, however
(f) as long as Oyster continues to own Securities, Oyster shall have the right to require the counterparty to the Discovery Change of Control Transaction to guarantee all of Discovery's obligations under the Transaction Documents, including Discovery's MPU exclusivity commitments and Discovery's commitments to purchase minimum GPU volumes under the Wafer Supply Agreement.
SECTION 5.02
New Investors to Execute Agreement Regarding Restrictions
FoundryCo shall not, and the Board shall not adopt any resolution to, at any time prior to the IPO, issue any Securities, or resell any Securities held in its treasury, or issue or resell any security convertible or exchangeable into Securities, unless, prior to the consummation of any such issuance or Sale of Securities, each Person to whom such security is proposed to be issued or sold executes and delivers an agreement, in a form reasonably acceptable to Oyster and Discovery, to FoundryCo and each Shareholder, whereby such Person confirms that, with respect to the Securities that are the subject of such Sale of Securities, it shall be deemed to be a "Shareholder" for the purposes of this Agreement and agrees to be bound by all such provisions and any other provisions reasonably required by Oyster and Discovery.
SECTION 5.03
Further Assurances
Unless otherwise specified herein, each of the Parties hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 5.04
Confidential Information
(a) Each Shareholder (a "") (i) shall, and shall cause its officers, directors, employees, attorneys, accountants, auditors and agents, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information (as defined herein) (collectively "") and its Affiliates and their Representatives, to the extent such Persons have received any Confidential Information, to maintain in strictest confidence any and all confidential information relating to FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is proprietary to FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries as applicable, or otherwise not available to the general public, including, but not limited to, information about properties, employees, finances, businesses and operations of FoundryCo, the other Shareholders, or any of their respective Subsidiaries and all notes, analyses, compilations, studies, forecasts, interpretations or other documents prepared by a receiving Shareholder or its Representatives which contain, reflect or are based upon, in whole or in part, the information furnished to or acquired by such Shareholder ("") and (ii) shall not disclose, and shall cause its Representatives, any members of the Board appointed by such Shareholder and their Representatives not to disclose, Confidential Information to any Person other than to the other Shareholders, FoundryCo and their respective Subsidiaries (including the agents, employees and attorneys thereof and the members of the Board appointed by such other Shareholders), except only to the extent such disclosure is required by applicable Law, SEC rules and regulations or legal process (including pursuant to any listing agreement with, or the rules or regulations of, any national securities exchange on which any securities of such Shareholder (or any Affiliate thereof) are listed or traded) in which event the Shareholder making such disclosure or whose Affiliates or Representatives are making such disclosure shall so notify the other Shareholders as promptly as practicable (and, if possible, prior to making such disclosure) and shall seek confidential treatment of such information if reasonably requested.
Restricted Party
Representatives
Confidential Information
 
(b) Notwithstanding :
Section 5.04(a)
(i) Any Restricted Party or any Representative thereof may disclose any Confidential Information for bona fide business purposes on a strict "need to know" basis to its Affiliates, its board of directors (or equivalent governing body), its Representatives and its lenders, , , that in each such case each such Person is bound by a legal duty to or otherwise agrees to keep such Confidential Information confidential in the manner set forth in this .
provided
however
Section 5.04
(ii) The provisions of shall not apply to, and Confidential Information shall not include:
Section 5.04(a)
(A) any information that is or has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by any Restricted Party or any Affiliate or Representative thereof in breach of any of the provisions of this ;
Section 5.04
(B) any information that has been independently developed by such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof) without violating any of the provisions of this Agreement or any other similar contract to which such Restricted Party, or any Affiliate thereof or their respective Representatives, is bound;
(C) any information made available to such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof), on a non-confidential basis by any third party who is not prohibited from disclosing such information to such Shareholder by a legal, contractual or fiduciary obligation to any other Shareholder or any of its Representatives; or
(D) any information already possessed by such Restricted Party (or any Affiliate thereof) and not obtained pursuant or subject to a confidentiality agreement.
(c) Except as otherwise provided for in this , Confidential Information received hereunder shall be used by each Shareholder and its Affiliates solely for use in connection with such Shareholder's investment in FoundryCo and with respect to FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries.
Section 5.04
(d) The obligations of each Shareholder under this shall survive for as long as such Party remains a Shareholder, respectively, and for two years after such Shareholder ceases to be a Shareholder, notwithstanding such Shareholder's Sale of Securities, and/or any Person ceasing to be an Affiliate of such Shareholder.
Section 5.04
SECTION 5.05
Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Indemnification Agreements
FoundryCo shall purchase and maintain directors and officers insurance in an amount equal to not less than $25 million prior to the IPO and $50 million immediately following the IPO, and the members of the Board and of any similar governing bodies of any Subsidiaries of FoundryCo appointed or designated by the Shareholders shall each be named as covered insureds thereunder. FoundryCo shall maintain the insurance contemplated hereby in effect from the date hereof until six (6) years from the last date upon which any member of the Board nominated by any of the Shareholders held office on the Board. In addition, FoundryCo shall enter into indemnification agreements with each member of the Board, in the form of or in such other form as is approved by the Board. In the event FoundryCo or any of its successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers all or substantially all of the properties and assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person, then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of FoundryCo shall assume the obligations set forth in this .
Exhibit B
Section 5.05
SECTION 5.06
Export Controls
(a) FoundryCo shall comply with all applicable export laws, registrations, international treaties or orders in effect on the date of the Agreement and as may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, all
 
such laws, registrations and treaties applicable to the export of goods and services from one country to another. Without limiting the foregoing, FoundryCo shall not export or transfer any product, exchange, supply, disclose or provide access to any technical data, or otherwise provide any service contrary to the applicable laws and regulations of the United States, or to any country, entity or other party which is ineligible to receive such items under U.S. laws and regulations, including regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce (the Export Administration Regulations at 15 C.F.R. Pts. 730 to 774), U.S. Department of State (the International Traffic in Arms Regulations at 22 C.F.R. Pts. 120-130), or the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the trade sanctions regulations at 31 C.F.R. Pts. 500 to 598).
(b) FoundryCo shall adopt a written policy for compliance with applicable U.S. export control and foreign trade control laws in the form of .
Exhibit C
SECTION 5.07
Rights to Purchase New Shares
(a) The provisions of this Section 5.07 shall terminate upon the IPO.
(b) At any time, in the event that FoundryCo proposes to issue new Shares to a Person, each of Discovery and Oyster shall have the right to purchase, in lieu of any Person to whom FoundryCo proposed to issue such new Shares, in accordance with paragraph (c) below, a number of new Shares equal to the product of (i) the total number of new Shares which FoundryCo proposes to issue at such time and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the total number of Fully Diluted Shares which such Shareholder owns at such time and the denominator of which shall be the total number of Fully Diluted Shares then Outstanding at the purchase price set forth in the Notice of Issuance; , that, prior to the Reconciliation Event, to the extent the issuance of any such Shares to Oyster or its designee(s) would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, FoundryCo shall instead issue to Oyster or its designee(s) Additional Convertible Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for such Shares that would have been issued to Oyster or its designees but for this proviso. The rights given by FoundryCo under this shall terminate if unexercised within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Notice of Issuance referred to in paragraph (c) below.
provided, however
Section 5.07
(c) In the event that FoundryCo proposes to undertake an issuance of new Shares to a Person, FoundryCo shall give written notice (a "") of its intention to each of Discovery and Oyster, describing all material terms of the new Shares and the purchase price. Each of Discovery and Oyster shall have thirty (30) days from the Notice of Issuance to agree to purchase all or a portion of its pro rata share of such new Shares (as determined pursuant to paragraph (b) above) for the same consideration.
Notice of Issuance
(d) If either or both of Discovery and Oyster elect to purchase any new Shares to be issued by FoundryCo, each such Shareholder electing to purchase the new Shares to be issued by FoundryCo shall select a date not later than twenty (20) days (or longer if required by applicable Law) after the expiration of the thirty (30)-day notice period referenced in paragraph (c) for the issue of the new Shares. Any new Shares not elected to be purchased by Discovery or Oyster may be sold by FoundryCo to the Person to which FoundryCo intended to sell such new Shares on terms and conditions no less favorable to FoundryCo than those offered to Discovery and Oyster.
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the right to purchase new Shares pursuant to this Section 5.07 shall not apply to (i) the issuance of any equity-based awards (and the underlying Shares) under any Incentive Plan, (ii) the issuance of any Shares pursuant to the conversion or exchange of any outstanding Securities of FoundryCo, or (iii) the issuance of any Shares pursuant to the terms of the Funding Agreement.
SECTION 5.08
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
Discovery may not amend, supplement, modify, terminate or extend the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement (as it exists at Closing) in any way adverse to the current rights of FoundryCo, without the prior written consent of FoundryCo.
 
SECTION 5.09
Fab Build-Outs
The Parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts with respect to the commitments relating to fab build-outs set forth on .
Exhibit D
SECTION 6.01
Deadlock Resolution Efforts
(a) All matters within the scope of the Funding Agreement requiring Board or Shareholder action shall be resolved in accordance with the deadlock provisions set forth therein.
(b) With respect to all other matters requiring Board action hereunder, if a matter properly submitted to the Board fails to be resolved by the Board, then during the twenty-one (21) day period following such deadlock, the Board shall seek in good faith to hold at least three (3) additional meetings in an attempt to resolve such deadlock. The additional meetings shall be held at the time and place (including by telephonic conference) agreed to by the members of the Board. If after such twenty-one (21) day period such deadlock shall not have been resolved, then the Board shall submit the specific items that are the subject of such deadlock to Discovery and Oyster, each acting through their chief executive officers, respectively, for resolution. A deadlock event shall be deemed to have lapsed if not resolved within thirty (30) days of referral to Discovery and Oyster and FoundryCo shall continue to operate in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in the manner which existed prior to the deadlock event occurring; , , that the Shareholders agree that if:
provided
however
(i) any Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) owns at least 75% of the Fully Diluted Shares, then such Shareholder shall be entitled to resolve the deadlock upon such lapse with respect to any action requiring a Majority Vote prior to the Reconciliation Event and with respect to each of the following:
(A) the amendment or restatement of its constituent documents, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such amendment or restatement would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(B) following the termination of the Restricted Period, any transaction resulting in a change of control of FoundryCo or any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders;
provided
however
(C) the entering into of any acquisition, joint venture, divestiture, transfer, sale, assignment, lease, license or disposal of any property or asset, real, personal or mixed (including leasehold interests and intangible assets), which have a value in excess of $5 million singly or $10 million in the aggregate; , , that any such transaction with a Permitted Transferee is on terms that are fair from a financial point of view to all Shareholders and does not materially adversely affect FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
provided
however
(D) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto; that such approval, amendment, modification or revision does not materially adversely affect FoundryCo's ability to perform its obligations to Discovery under the Wafer Supply Agreement;
provided
(E) the authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Shares or other equity interest (or option, warrant, conversion or similar right with respect to any equity interest) in or of FoundryCo or its Subsidiaries to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or any Incentive Plan, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such authorization, issuance, sale, acquisition, conversion, repurchase or
 
redemption would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(F) the declaration, making or payment of any dividend, distribution or transfer (whether in cash, securities or other property) to shareholders, so long as, prior to the Reconciliation Event, such declaration, making or payment would not cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement;
(G) the entering into or the amendment of (i) any of the Transaction Documents, (ii) any Incentive Plan or (iii) any agreement, contract or arrangement by FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is obligated to pay or is entitled to receive payments in excess of $5 million over the term of such contract;
(H)(i) the sale, license, sublicense, assignment, transfer, termination or other disposition of any Intellectual Property right owned by or licensed to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any amendment of any license from or to FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries of any Intellectual Property, or (iii) any covenants or agreements not to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of any Intellectual Property, other than any of the foregoing in the ordinary course of the business of FoundryCo or, with respect to any of the foregoing involving a Subsidiary of FoundryCo, the business of such Subsidiary;
(I) the prosecution, commencement or settlement of any litigation or administrative action for an amount in excess of $2 million in any such prosecution, commencement or settlement or series of related prosecutions, commencements or settlements or waiving or relinquishing any material rights or claims;
(J) the making of any loan, investment or expenditure (or series of related expenditures) not reflected in the Annual Business Plan involving more than $2 million singly or $5 million in the aggregate;
(K) the incurrence of any indebtedness or subjecting any of its properties or assets to any lien, claim or encumbrance or the giving of any material guarantee or indemnity, in each case to the extent not reflected in the Annual Business Plan, which would result in an increase of 5% or more of the total indebtedness contemplated in the Annual Business Plan;
(L) the consummation of any Public Offering of securities;
(M) the appointment or termination of FoundryCo's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer;
(N) the entering into any transaction, agreement or arrangement between FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and any Officer, Director, Affiliate or Shareholder, on the other hand, (other than the transactions provided for in or contemplated by the Transaction Documents) unless the total consideration expected to be paid or received by FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries taken as whole as a result of such transaction or proposed change or waiver shall not exceed $2 million; and
(O) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (A) - (N);
(ii) any Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) owns at least 90% of the Fully Diluted Shares, then such Shareholder shall be entitled to resolve the deadlock upon such lapse with respect to any action requiring a Majority Vote prior to the Reconciliation Event and with respect to each of the following:
(A) each of the items listed in other than 6.01(b)(i)(D);
Section 6.01(b)(i)
(B) implementing material changes in the purpose or scope of FoundryCo's activities or engaging in any material activity unrelated to FoundryCo's business;
(C) approval of any material amendment, modification or revision to the initial Five-Year Capital Plan;
 
(D) approval of any Annual Business Plan or any material amendment, modification or revision thereto; and
(E) the entering into of any contract, arrangement, understanding or other similar agreement with respect to any of the foregoing in subsections (A) - (D).
SECTION 7.01
Dissolution.
(a) The Shareholders shall pass a special resolution approving the dissolution of FoundryCo upon the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) by virtue of a written agreement to that effect, signed by Discovery and Oyster;
(ii) the occurrence of any material event that makes it unlawful or illegal to carry on FoundryCo's business, which event is not able to be cured after written notice has been given to the Shareholders specifying the details of such event; or
(iii) at the election by the other Shareholder (the ""), (A) if either Discovery or Oyster (the ""):
Non-Affected Shareholder
Affected Shareholder
(1) commences a voluntary case under any Bankruptcy Law,
(2) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case under any Bankruptcy Law,
(3) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
(4) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
(5) generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due, or
(B) if a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree, and such order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for sixty (60) days, under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(1) is for relief against the Affected Shareholder in an involuntary case,
(2) appoints a Custodian of the Affected Shareholder or for all or substantially all of its property, or
(3) orders the liquidation of the Affected Shareholder.
For the purposes of this , the term "" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors. The term "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidation or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.01
Bankruptcy Law
Custodian
(b) Upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in  and , the Non-Affected Shareholder may elect in lieu of triggering the dissolution of FoundryCo pursuant to any or all of the following actions:
Section 7.01(a)(iii) (A)
(B)
Section 7.01(a)(iii)
(i) upon notice to FoundryCo by the Non-Affected Shareholder, the rights of the Directors designated by the Affected Shareholder (each an "") under shall terminate and all actions set forth under shall require the approval of each Director designated by the Non-Affected Shareholder (each a "") with each Affected Director recusing themselves from such vote and upon such approval, the matter shall be deemed approved by the Board; , , that the rights of each Affected Director under shall survive if, prior to
Affected Director
Section 2.08(b)
Section 2.08(b)
Non-Affected Director
provided
however
Section 2.08(b)(i)
 
the Reconciliation Event, the action to be approved by the Board would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement; and/or
(ii) the Non-Affected Shareholder shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with , any or all of the Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by the Affected Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees.
Section 3.11
(c) Upon the dissolution of FoundryCo, the Person or Persons approved by the Shareholders holding a majority of the Fully Diluted Shares to carry out the winding-up of FoundryCo shall immediately commence to wind up FoundryCo's affairs in accordance with applicable Law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association; , that a reasonable time shall be allowed for the orderly liquidation of the assets of FoundryCo and the satisfaction of liabilities to creditors so as to enable the Shareholders to minimize the normal losses attendant upon a liquidation.
provided, however
SECTION 8.01
Termination
This Agreement shall terminate only:
(a) upon dissolution of FoundryCo in accordance with ;
Article VII
(b) by virtue of a written agreement to that effect, signed by all Parties hereto then possessing any rights hereunder; or
(c) with respect to any Shareholder (subject to ), at such time as such Shareholder (together with its Permitted Transferees) no longer owns or holds any Securities.
Section 5.04(d)
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , all rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder (except for this paragraph, (Confidential Information), (Notices), (Governing Law; Arbitration), (Expenses) and (Definitions) shall terminate. Nothing contained in this shall relieve any Party for any breach of any agreement or covenant contained in this Agreement that occurred prior to the date of termination of this Agreement.
Section 8.01
Section 5.04
Section 8.02
Section 8.10
Section 8.13
Appendix A
Section 8.01
SECTION 8.02
Notices
All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be given or made in accordance with Section 14.01 of the Master Transaction Agreement.
SECTION 8.03
Public Announcements
No Party hereto shall make, or cause to be made, any press release or public announcement or otherwise communicate with any news media in respect of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without the prior consent of the other Parties unless otherwise required by Law or applicable stock exchange regulation, and the Parties hereto shall cooperate as to the timing and contents of any such press release, public announcement or communication.
 
SECTION 8.04
Severability
If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
SECTION 8.05
Entire Agreement
This Agreement and the other Transaction Documents constitute the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, between Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
SECTION 8.06
Assignment
This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of each Party hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such Party) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void.
SECTION 8.07
Amendment
This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each Party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with .
Section 8.08
SECTION 8.08
Waiver
Either Discovery or Oyster may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other Party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of the other Party contained herein or in any document delivered by the other Party pursuant hereto, or (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of the other Party or conditions to such Party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the Party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of either Party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
SECTION 8.09
Third Party Beneficiaries
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of Discovery, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 8.10
Governing Law; Arbitration
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to principles of the conflict of laws.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one Party to the other(s), to a senior executive from each Party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of the London Court of International Arbitration (the "") then in effect, as amended by this Section 8.10, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 8.10. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three (3). Each Party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two (2) arbitrators nominated by the Parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal (as such terms are defined in the LCIA Rules). If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court (as such term is defined in the LCIA Rules) shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a Party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and, subject to this Section 8.10(c) and to Section 8.10(d), may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the Parties. In the event any Party subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a Party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the Parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the Parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the Parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the Parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the Parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 8.10; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 8.10).
LCIA Rules
Interim Relief Proceeding
 
(d) Oyster hereby irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law whatever defense it may have of sovereign immunity against suit or enforcement, for itself and its property (presently owned or subsequently acquired, and whether related to this Agreement or not), in: (i) any arbitration proceedings commenced and held in London, England in accordance with Section 8.10(c); (ii) any Interim Relief Proceeding commenced and held in a court of competent jurisdiction in London, England, in accordance with Section 8.10(c); (iii) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England to confirm an award rendered by the arbitrators in accordance with this Section 8.10; and (iv) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce an award, and Oyster agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such action or proceeding.
(e) The Parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 8.02. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any Party's behalf, such Party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a Party requiring another Party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other Party fails to do so, the Party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other Party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
SECTION 8.11
Currency
Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to currency, monetary values and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars and all payments hereunder shall be made in United States dollars.
SECTION 8.12
Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
SECTION 8.13
Expenses
Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, all costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and in closing and carrying out the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Party incurring such cost or expense.
SECTION 8.14
No Presumption Against Drafting Party
Each Party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each of the Parties hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting Party has no application and is expressly waived.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized signatories thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
"" means the sum of (i) the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share, plus (ii) the amount of value accreted on the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share at a rate of 12% per year, compounded semiannually.
Accreted Value
"" means any additional convertible promissory notes of FoundryCo to be issued after the Closing Date pursuant to the Funding Agreement and the Master Transaction Agreement, including paid-in-kind interest on such notes.
Additional Convertible Notes
"" means the additional Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon the conversion of the Class B Preferred Shares, if the Fair Market Value of the Class B Ordinary Shares to be received upon such conversion would be less than the Accreted Value of such Class B Preferred Shares.
Additional Shares
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person; ,that with respect to Oyster and Pearl, Affiliate shall mean any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Oyster or Pearl, respectively, and not any direct or indirect parent or sister entity of either Oyster or Pearl, as the case may be, unless such parent or sister entity is acting as a member of a "group" (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with Oyster or Pearl, respectively, for the purposes of acquiring, holding or disposing of securities of FoundryCo.
Affiliate
provided
however,
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Annual Business Plan
"" means only the Liabilities set forth on Exhibit E to the Master Transaction Agreement.
Assumed Liabilities
"" means the Board of Directors of FoundryCo, as specified in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Board
"" means any day that is not a Friday, a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in The City of New York or in Abu Dhabi.
Business Day
"" means the Class A ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class B ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" means shares of Class A preferred shares of FoundryCo with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Preferred Shares
"" means shares of Class B preferred shares of FoundryCo with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Preferred Shares
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing
"" means the date of the Closing, as further described in of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing Date
Section 2.03
 
"" (including the terms "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly or as trustee, personal representative or executor, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee, personal representative or executor, by contract, credit arrangement or otherwise.
control
controlled by
under common control with
"" means the Initial Convertible Notes and the Additional Convertible Notes.
Convertible Notes
"" means a Person who is a member of the Board.
Director
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Discovery Change of Control Transaction
"" means the right of Discovery to have unlimited volumes of products, including microprocessors, made for Discovery and its Subsidiaries by FoundryCo, regardless of whether FoundryCo is a "Subsidiary" or "Affiliate" of Discovery for purposes of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, such rights shall not require (i) the payment of any royalties, license fees or other consideration by FoundryCo or the pass through of such royalties, license fees or other consideration by Discovery to FoundryCo, (ii) the license to (or covenants for the benefit of) Intel or its Affiliates in respect of any patents or patent applications of FoundryCo (other than patents already licensed or required to be licensed to Intel pursuant to agreements between Intel and Discovery as of the Closing), or (iii) other restrictions that would prevent FoundryCo from (or limit FoundryCo in) manufacturing or supplying Discovery's products for Discovery.
Discovery-specific Have Made Rights
"" means any security interest, pledge, hypothecation, mortgage, lien (including environmental and tax liens), violation, charge, lease, license, encumbrance, servient easement, adverse claim, reversion, reverter, preferential arrangement, restrictive covenant, condition or restriction of any kind, including any restriction on the use, voting, transfer, receipt of income or other exercise of any attributes of ownership.
Encumbrance
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means, as of any date of determination (i) with respect to the Convertible Notes, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Convertible Notes plus any accrued interest; (ii) with respect to securities traded on any internationally recognized securities exchange, the value shall be deemed to be the average of the closing price of the securities on such exchange over the twenty (20)-day period ending two (2) days prior to such date of determination; (iii) with respect to securities actively traded over-the-counter, the value shall be deemed to be the average of the closing bid or sale price (whichever is applicable) over the twenty (20)-day period ending two (2) days prior to such date of determination; and (iv) with respect to securities for which there is no active public market, and with respect to property or other assets, the fair market value thereof, as determined in accordance with . In making such determination, the impact of all terms of the securities shall be taken into account, including conversion premiums, dividends, attached warrants, exercise price and the like, if there is no active public market, and whether or not the Reconciliation Event shall have occurred. For purposes of , the date of determination hereunder shall be the date of the public announcement of the Discovery Change of Control Transaction.
Fair Market Value
Section 3.11
Section 5.01
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Five-Year Capital Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Group
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Assets
 
"" means the aggregate of (i) the number of Class B Ordinary Shares issued and Outstanding and (ii) the number of Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon (x) the exercise of any then exercisable outstanding options, warrants or similar instruments (other than such instruments held by FoundryCo) and (y) the exercise of any conversion or exchange rights with respect to any outstanding securities, including (A) any Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares, assuming each Class A Preferred Share and each Class B Preferred Share converts into 100 Class B Ordinary Shares (but excluding any Additional Shares issuable with respect to the Class B Preferred Shares), as adjusted for any share splits, share dividends, share combinations and the like, and (B) any Convertible Notes, assuming the Convertible Notes convert into Preferred Shares and then into Class B Ordinary Shares in accordance with the terms thereof (excluding any accrued and unpaid interest).
Fully Diluted Shares
"" means the Funding Agreement dated as of the date hereof among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo relating to future capital contributions to FoundryCo, as may be amended from time to time.
Funding Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Funding Date
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles and practices in effect from time to time applied consistently throughout the periods involved.
GAAP
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local, or similar government, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body.
Governmental Authority
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
HSR Act
"" means International Financial Reporting Standards as in effect from time to time.
IFRS
"" means an incentive compensation plan for FoundryCo.
Incentive Plan
"" means (i) the two hundred one million eight hundred ten thousand dollars ($201,810,000) principal amount class A convertible promissory note issued by FoundryCo to Oyster at the Closing, including any paid-in-kind interest on such note, and (ii) the eight hundred seven million two hundred forty thousand dollars ($807,240,000) principal amount class B convertible promissory note issued by FoundryCo to Oyster at the Closing, including any paid-in-kind interest on such note.
Initial Convertible Notes
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Intellectual Property
"" means that certain Patent Cross License Agreement between Discovery and Intel, dated January 1, 2001, as may be amended from time to time.
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
"" means the initial Public Offering of FoundryCo.
IPO
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local or similar statute, law, ordinance, decree, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement or rule of law (including common law).
Law
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Luther Forest Site
"" means the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the members of the Board.
Majority Vote
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Malta Rocket Fuel Area
"" means the Master Transaction Agreement by and among Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto dated as of October 6, 2008, as amended.
Master Transaction Agreement
 
"" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of FoundryCo, filed with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
"" means the employees designated as officers by the Board including but not limited to a Chief Executive Officer and a Chief Financial Officer.
Officers
"" means the Class A Ordinary Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares
"" means, as of any date of determination, all Shares that have been issued on or prior to such date, other than Shares held, repurchased or otherwise reacquired by FoundryCo on or prior to such date.
Outstanding
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Pearl
"" means with respect to a Shareholder or FoundryCo, any Affiliate of such Shareholder or FoundryCo, as the case may be; ,that with respect to Oyster or FoundryCo, Permitted Transferee shall also mean any transferee Person directly or indirectly controlled by the Abu Dhabi government that is directed to be a transferee by any Governmental Authority.
Permitted Transferee
provided
however,
"" means an individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" means the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares.
Preferred Shares
"" means any action, suit, claim, charge, hearing, arbitration, audit, or proceeding (public or private).
Proceeding
"" means an underwritten public offering of equity securities pursuant to an effective Registration Statement under the Securities Act or similar non-U.S. applicable Laws.
Public Offering
"" has the meaning set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Qualified Processes
"" means the earlier of (i) such time when Discovery has secured for FoundryCo Discovery-specific Have Made Rights under the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, or (ii) such time when the Board determines that FoundryCo no longer needs to be a "subsidiary" of Discovery as defined in Section 1.22 of the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or any other Transaction Document, prior to the Reconciliation Event, FoundryCo shall in no event be under any obligation (contractually or otherwise) to directly or indirectly distribute more than seventy percent (70%) of its profits to any Person.
Reconciliation Event
"" means any issuance, sale, assignment, transfer, distribution (whether by an entity to its owners or otherwise) or other disposition of Securities or of a participation therein, whether voluntarily or by operation of applicable Law.
Sale of Securities
"" means the Shares and the Convertible Notes.
Securities
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" means this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time.
Shareholders' Agreement
 
"" means each Person (other than FoundryCo) that shall be a party to the Shareholders' Agreement as a holder of Securities, whether in connection with the execution and delivery thereof as of the Closing Date or otherwise, so long as such Person shall beneficially own, hold of record or be a registered holder of any Securities.
Shareholder
"" means the Ordinary Shares, the Preferred Shares and any other shares of the share capital of FoundryCo issued on or after the date of the Shareholders' Agreement.
Shares
"" or "", with respect to any Person, means any and all corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures, associations and other entities controlled by such Person, directly or indirectly or in which such Person directly or indirectly has at least 50% of the voting power to elect the board of directors or other governing body of such entity; , that solely for purposes of this Agreement neither FoundryCo nor any member of the FoundryCo Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Discovery following the Closing. The foregoing proviso shall be applicable only to this Agreement and shall not be applicable to, and shall have no relevance with respect to, any other agreement, arrangement, understanding, contract, license or mortgage to which any of Oyster, Discovery or FoundryCo, or any of their respective Affiliates, is or may become a party or the interpretation thereof, unless such proviso is included therein.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
provided, however
"" means, with respect to any Shareholder, any Person other than (i) any Permitted Transferee of such Shareholder or (ii) the Other Shareholder, and, with respect to FoundryCo, any Person other than its Subsidiaries or a Shareholder or the Permitted Transferees of a Shareholder.
Third Party
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
Transition Period
"" has the meaning set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Wafer Starts
"" means the Wafer Supply Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between Discovery and FoundryCo relating to the manufacture and sale of wafers to Discovery by FoundryCo following the Closing, as may be amended from time to time.
Wafer Supply Agreement
 
. The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Sections set forth below:
Table of Additional Definitions
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This FUNDING AGREEMENT (this "" and as referred to herein, this ""), dated as of March 2, 2009, is entered into by and among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC, a limited liability company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and wholly-owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi ("") (each of Discovery and Oyster being a "" and together the "") and The Foundry Company, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""). Discovery, Oyster and FoundryCo are sometimes referred to herein as the "," and each individually as a "."
Funding Agreement
Agreement
Discovery
Oyster
Shareholder
Shareholders
FoundryCo
Parties
Party
WHEREAS, Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto are parties to the Master Transaction Agreement that provides, among other things, for the formation of FoundryCo under the laws of the Cayman Islands to act as the holding company for a joint venture between Discovery and Oyster; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Parties wish to provide for the funding of FoundryCo from the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the date this Agreement is terminated.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings referred to or ascribed to such terms in .
Certain Defined Terms.
Appendix A
SECTION 1.02. In this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise provided or that the context otherwise requires:
Interpretation and Rules of Construction.
(a) when a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Appendix, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or an Appendix to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;
(b) the table of contents and headings for this Agreement are for reference purposes only and do not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(c) whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(d) the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
(e) any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty contained in this Agreement as to the matters covered thereby;
(f) all terms defined in this Agreement have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, unless otherwise defined therein;
(g) the definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms;
(h) whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms;
(i) any Law defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such Law or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor Laws and any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder;
(j) any reference in this Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number of calendar days;
(k) references to a Person are also to its successors and permitted assigns; and
(l) the use of "or" is not intended to be exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise.
SECTION 2.01.
Approval of Annual Business Plan.
(a) On or prior to mid-November of each year (which date shall be prior to the end of the seventh fiscal week of the fourth fiscal quarter of such year of FoundryCo), or the next succeeding Business Day if such date is not a Business Day, the Management Team shall prepare and present to the Board for its approval a proposed Annual Business Plan for the subsequent Fiscal Year. The Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending on December 26, 2009 (the "") is attached hereto as . Each proposed Annual Business Plan shall address, among other things, each of the line items set forth in the First Annual Business Plan.
First Annual Business Plan
Appendix B
(b) In connection with the preparation of each proposed Annual Business Plan, the Management Team shall retain such advisors and take such actions as will enable it to estimate whether and to what extent third-party debt financing ("") would then be available to FoundryCo, with the aim that such Debt Financing would be at least sufficient to meet the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan. Each proposed Annual Business Plan shall include either a proposed commitment letter for such Debt Financing or a summary of indicative terms from at least two financial institutions (or, if in the good faith determination of the Management Team, no reputable and established financial institutions would provide such Debt Financing on commercially reasonable terms, a statement to such effect). Each of Discovery and Oyster shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to assist FoundryCo in obtaining any Debt Financing, and either Shareholder shall have the option, but not the obligation, to provide guarantees or other similar means of financial support in connection with any Debt Financing.
Debt Financing
(c) Such proposed Annual Business Plan shall specifically include an estimate, by fiscal quarter, of sources and uses of funds for FoundryCo for such subsequent Fiscal Year, at all times after giving effect to the cash reserve requirement in . After due consideration of such proposed Annual Business Plan, the Board shall vote on whether to approve (with such changes as the Board shall determine) such proposed Annual Business Plan in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement. If the Board approves such proposed Annual Business Plan in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement, such proposed Annual Business Plan shall immediately become effective as the Annual Business Plan for the subsequent Fiscal Year.
Section 2.02
(d) If the Board has not approved such proposed Annual Business Plan on or prior to the earlier of (i) the first Business Day after November 29 and (ii) the last day of the ninth (9
th
) fiscal week of the fourth fiscal quarter
 
of Foundry Co, then within three (3) Business Days thereafter FoundryCo shall deliver a notice that shall detail the specific items that are the subject of such non-approval to the chief executive officer of each Shareholder. During the period following receipt of such notice through December 23 of that Fiscal Year, the chief executive officers, acting on behalf of their respective Shareholder, shall seek in good faith and shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to hold at least three (3) additional meetings with the goal of approving the proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as the chief executive officers shall determine). If (i) the Board approves such proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as the chief executive officers, acting on behalf of their respective Shareholder, shall determine) in accordance with the approvals required by the Shareholders' Agreement, or (ii) a Shareholder unilaterally approves such proposed Annual Business Plan (with such changes as such Shareholder shall determine) pursuant to the rights granted under of the Shareholders' Agreement, such proposed Annual Business Plan shall immediately become effective as the Annual Business Plan for such subsequent Fiscal Year.
Section 6.01(b)
(e) If the Shareholders, acting through their respective chief executive officers, have not approved such proposed Annual Business Plan on or prior to December 23
rd
of the Fiscal Year in which the proposed Annual Business Plan was submitted to the Board and the chief executive officers, a "" shall be deemed to have occurred and the Parties shall follow the deadlock resolution procedures set forth in .
Business Plan Deadlock
Article VIII
SECTION 2.02. . The Parties agree that at all times during the term of this Agreement, the FoundryCo Group shall maintain Cash and Cash Equivalents in an amount equal to at least $1.0 billion, , that this requirement shall no longer apply upon the earlier of (i) FoundryCo entering into a Transition Period in accordance with hereunder and (ii) the end of Phase II.
Cash Reserve
provided, however
Article VIII
SECTION 3.01.
Funding Notices.
(a) From time to time during the term of this Agreement, FoundryCo may provide a notice requesting equity funding (the "") to both Shareholders in substantially the form attached hereto as . The First Funding Notice shall be provided at least thirty (30) Business Days prior to the date of any contemplated equity funding hereunder (unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Shareholders) (each, a "").
First Funding Notice
Appendix D
Funding Date
(b) On any Funding Date, the aggregate number of Securities to be issued shall consist of twenty percent (20%) in the form of Class A Preferred Shares and eighty percent (80%) in the form of Class B Preferred Shares, , that, prior to the Reconciliation Event, to the extent the issuance of any such Securities to Oyster would cause FoundryCo to fail to constitute a "subsidiary" of Discovery, as such term is defined in the Intel Patent Cross License Agreement, FoundryCo shall instead issue to Oyster (i) a Class A Convertible Note in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for the Class A Preferred Shares that would have been issued to Oyster but for this proviso, and (ii) a Class B Convertible Note in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate purchase price for the Class B Preferred Shares that would have been issued to Oyster but for this proviso.
provided, however
(c) Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , unless otherwise agreed by the Shareholders, the aggregate amount of equity funding to be provided by the Shareholders in any Fiscal Year pursuant to this Agreement shall be as follows:
Article VI
(i) during Phase I, such amount shall be equal to the Original Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, , that such Original Funding Level shall be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt
provided
however,
 
Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, and , that, subject to , to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, the Original Funding Level shall not be increased to make up any such difference;
provided further
Section 3.01(c)(iv)
(ii) during Phase II, such amount shall be equal to the Original Funding Level for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, , that such amount may be reduced (A) to the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to , (B) to a level between the Original Funding Level and the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to and (C) to the Minimum Funding Level pursuant to . Such amount shall also be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, , that, subject to , to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, such amount shall not be increased to make up any such difference. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Minimum Funding Level applies, then (x) the projected Debt Funding Level shall be reduced to the Minimum Debt Funding Level, and (y) if the level of Debt Financing is less than any such projected Minimum Debt Funding Level, the minimum level of equity funding shall be equal to the Minimum Funding Level;
provided
however,
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.02(a)
Section 8.04(c)
provided, however
Section 3.01(c)(iv)
(iii) during Phase III, such amount shall be equal to the equity funding level set forth in the approved Annual Business Plan for such Fiscal Year, , that such amount may be reduced (A) to a level between the Phase III Alternate Funding Level and the Transition Funding Level pursuant to and (B) to the Transition Funding Level pursuant to . Such amount shall also be reduced to the extent any Debt Financing obtained by FoundryCo during such Fiscal Year exceeds the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, , that to the extent such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, such amount shall not be increased to make up any such difference. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Transition Funding Level applies and such Debt Financing is less than any such projected Debt Funding Level, the minimum level of equity funding shall be equal to the Transition Funding Level; and
provided, however
Section 8.03(a)
Section 8.04(c)
provided, however
(iv) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in or , if (A) any equity funding has been reduced during Phase I or Phase II as a result of Debt Financing obtained during any Fiscal Year exceeding the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year (the cumulative amount of such equity funding reduction being referred to as the "") and (B) during any subsequent Fiscal Year during Phase I or Phase II the amount of any Debt Financing is less than the projected Debt Funding Level for such Fiscal Year, then the amount of equity funding for such Fiscal Year or for any subsequent Fiscal Year during Phase I or Phase II may be increased up to the Rollover Amount, , that in no event shall the aggregate amount of equity funding to be provided by Oyster during Phase I and Phase II exceed the aggregate amount of equity funding for Phase I and Phase II as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Section 3.01(c)(i)
(ii)
Rollover Amount
provided, however
(d) Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , Oyster shall be obligated to purchase its Pro Rata Portion of the Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice. Discovery shall have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase its Pro Rata Portion of the Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice. Within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of a First Funding Notice, Discovery shall advise FoundryCo and Oyster, in writing, whether it elects to purchase any of the Securities offered. To the extent that Discovery elects not to purchase all of its Pro Rata Portion of any Securities offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice, Oyster shall be obligated, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in , to purchase all of such unpurchased Securities. Oyster may also elect at any time to purchase additional Securities in excess of those offered pursuant to any First Funding Notice.
Article VI
Article VI
(e) On or prior to the tenth (10
th
) Business Day prior to a Funding Date, FoundryCo shall provide a notice (the "") to each Shareholder in substantially the form attached hereto as which shall detail each Shareholder's allocable portion of the Securities offered.
Second Funding Notice
Appendix E
 
SECTION 3.02.
Purchase and Sale of Securities.
(a) Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, on each Funding Date, FoundryCo shall issue to each purchasing Shareholder and such Shareholder shall purchase, accept and acquire from FoundryCo the allocated Securities as set forth in the Second Funding Notice for such Funding Date.
(b) On each Funding Date, the purchase price per Class A Preferred Share shall be the same as the purchase price per Class B Preferred Share and shall be determined by dividing (i) the Net Tangible Assets of the FoundryCo Group (derived from the most recent Fiscal Year-end audited consolidated balance sheet of FoundryCo that has been approved by the Board and calculated in accordance with the Statement of Principles set forth in attached hereto) by (ii) the Number of Outstanding Preferred Shares (as of the date of the balance sheet referred to in clause (i) above), and multiplying such quotient by 0.90.
Appendix F
(c) On each Funding Date, the aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes to be issued shall be determined in accordance with .
Section 3.01(b)
SECTION 3.03. On each Funding Date, FoundryCo shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Oyster and Discovery, if applicable, or their respective designated custodians:
Closing Deliveries by FoundryCo.
(a) if requested, physical certificates evidencing the number of Class A Preferred Shares to be purchased by such Shareholder on such Funding Date, rounded to the nearest whole share;
(b) if requested, physical certificates evidencing the number of Class B Preferred Shares, to be purchased by such Shareholder on such Funding Date, rounded to the nearest whole share;
(c) if applicable, a Class A Convertible Note to Oyster for an aggregate principal amount in accordance with ;
Section 3.01(b)
(d) if applicable, a Class B Convertible Note to Oyster for an aggregate principal amount in accordance with ;
Section 3.01(b)
(e) an updated Register of Members reflecting the issuance of the Securities on such Funding Date;
(f) a certificate, dated as of such Funding Date, executed by an authorized officer of FoundryCo certifying as to the matters set forth in , and or , as applicable; and
Article IV
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(a), 6.02(b)
6.02(c)
(g) receipt(s) for the aggregate consideration paid by such Shareholder for the Securities issued to it on such Funding Date.
SECTION 3.04. On each Funding Date, to the extent a Shareholder is purchasing Securities, such Shareholder shall deliver to FoundryCo:
Closing Deliveries by the Shareholders.
(a)(i) a wire transfer of the aggregate consideration for the Securities to be issued to such Shareholder on such Funding Date, payable in United States dollars and in immediately available funds to the bank account designated by FoundryCo in the First Funding Notice, or (ii) if the Board so agrees in advance, the aggregate consideration for such Securities payable in Cash and Cash Equivalents acceptable to the Board; and
(b) a certificate, dated as of such Funding Date, executed by an authorized officer of such Shareholder certifying as to the matters set forth in .
Article V
 
FoundryCo hereby represents and warrants as of each Funding Date to each Shareholder who is issued Securities on such Funding Date as follows:
SECTION 4.01. FoundryCo is an exempted company limited by shares, duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the Cayman Islands. FoundryCo has all corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization, Authority and Qualification of FoundryCo.
SECTION 4.02. The Class A Preferred Shares and the Class B Preferred Shares to be issued and purchased pursuant to this Agreement on any Funding Date have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with this Agreement on such Funding Date, shall be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and will be free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and Shareholders' Agreement, and shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Class B Ordinary Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and Shareholders' Agreement.
Authorization of the Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares.
SECTION 4.03. . In the event that any Convertible Notes are issued on any Funding Date, the Convertible Notes to be issued pursuant to this Agreement on such Funding Date have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with this Agreement on such Funding Date, shall be duly executed and delivered by FoundryCo and shall constitute valid and binding obligations of FoundryCo, enforceable against FoundryCo in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally. The Class A Preferred Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class A Convertible Notes shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement. The Class B Preferred Shares issuable upon conversion of the Class B Convertible Notes shall be entitled to the rights and be subject to the restrictions described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free of all preemptive or similar rights, except as set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the Shareholders' Agreement.
Authorization of Convertible Notes
SECTION 4.04. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by FoundryCo, the performance by FoundryCo of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by FoundryCo of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of FoundryCo. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by FoundryCo, and this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of FoundryCo, enforceable against FoundryCo in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 4.05. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by FoundryCo, the performance by FoundryCo of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by FoundryCo of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not require any Authorizations and do not and will not require any Consents, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of such Funding Date.
Absence of Further Requirements
 
SECTION 4.06. . The execution and delivery by FoundryCo of this Agreement, the compliance by FoundryCo with all the provisions hereof, the performance by FoundryCo of all of its obligations hereunder and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under, the constituent documents of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries, any Material FoundryCo Contract or any other indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument that is material to FoundryCo and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to FoundryCo, any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property; (iii) result in the imposition or creation of (or the obligation to create or impose) any material Encumbrance on the assets, properties or business of FoundryCo under any agreement or instrument to which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or their respective property is bound; or (iv) result in the suspension, termination or revocation of any material Consent or Authorization of FoundryCo or any of its Subsidiaries or any other impairment of the rights of the holder of any such material Consent or Authorization.
No Conflicts
Each of Oyster and Discovery, if applicable, severally and not jointly, hereby represents and warrants as of each Funding Date to FoundryCo as follows:
SECTION 5.01. Such Shareholder has been duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization.
SECTION 5.02. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Shareholder, the performance by such Shareholder of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by such Shareholder of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Shareholder and this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligations of such Shareholder, enforceable against such Shareholder in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar Laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 5.03. . To the knowledge of such Shareholder, the execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Shareholder, the performance by such Shareholder of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by such Shareholder of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not require any Authorization and do not and will not require any Consents, except such as have been previously obtained and will be in full force and effect as of such Funding Date.
Absence of Further Requirements
SECTION 5.04. The execution and delivery by such Shareholder of this Agreement, the compliance by such Shareholder with all the provisions hereof, the performance by such Shareholder of all of its obligations hereunder, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not: (i) conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of the organizational documents of such Shareholder; or (ii) materially violate or conflict with any Law applicable to such Shareholder.
No Conflicts.
SECTION 5.05.
Investment Representations.
(a) Such Shareholder acknowledges and understands that (i) the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act or under any state securities Laws and are being offered and sold in reliance
 
upon federal and state exemptions for transactions not involving any public offering, (ii) such exemption depends in part upon, and such Securities are being sold in reliance on, the representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement, (iii) such Shareholder may have to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Securities for an indefinite period of time because the Securities must be held indefinitely unless subsequently registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities Laws or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and (iv) a restrictive legend evidencing these restrictions shall be placed on all certificates evidencing the Securities.
(b) Such Shareholder is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act, a sophisticated investor and, by virtue of its business or financial experience, is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment in the Securities. Such Shareholder has been provided an opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from representatives of FoundryCo concerning the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the purchase of the Securities contemplated hereby.
(c) Such Shareholder is acquiring the Securities for the purpose of investment and not with a view to, or for offer or sale in connection with, any distribution thereof that would be prohibited by Law.
SECTION 6.01. The obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities on any Funding Date as contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, on or prior to the applicable Funding Date, of each of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent To Oyster Funding on Each Funding Date.
(a) FoundryCo shall have delivered to Oyster the closing deliverables set forth in .
Deliverables.
Section 3.03
(b).
Representations and Warranties; Covenants
(i) the representations and warranties of FoundryCo set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such Funding Date; and
(ii) the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement to be complied with by FoundryCo on or before the applicable Funding Date shall have been complied with in all material respects.
(c) . No event or events shall have occurred, or be reasonably likely to occur, which, individually or in the aggregate, have, or are reasonably likely to have, (i) a FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect or (ii) a Discovery Material Adverse Effect that could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect Discovery's performance of its obligations under the Wafer Supply Agreement, including a sustained material decrease in Discovery's MPU forecasts, or Discovery's MPU purchase orders under the Wafer Supply Agreement being materially below its MPU forecasts thereunder on a sustained basis.
No Material Adverse Effect
(d) . As of such Funding Date, there shall be no material breach or default by FoundryCo or Discovery under the terms or provisions of any Transaction Document.
No Material Default Under Transaction Documents
(e) . The Shareholders shall have received from counsel to FoundryCo a written legal opinion, addressed to Oyster and dated as of such Funding Date, in the form attached hereto as .
Legal Opinion
Appendix G
SECTION 6.02.
Supplemental Conditions to Oyster Funding.
(a) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase I shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the
Section 6.01
 
supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date.
Appendix H
(b) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase II shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the supplemental conditions set forth under Legal Conditions, Financial Conditions and Strategic Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date, except for any other date otherwise specified therein, , that if paragraph 3(b) under Legal Conditions on has not been satisfied or waived on or prior to such Funding Date, then Oyster's funding obligation may, at Oyster's option, be reduced to the Minimum Funding Level until such date, if any, when Oyster receives evidence to its reasonable satisfaction that the event referred to in paragraph 3(b) under Legal Conditions has occurred and , that if any of the Financial Conditions or Strategic Conditions on has not been satisfied or waived on or prior to such Funding Date, then Oyster's funding obligation may, at Oyster's option, be reduced to the Minimum Funding Level until such date, if any, when Oyster receives evidence to its reasonable satisfaction that such condition has been satisfied. For the avoidance of doubt, with respect to any Abu Dhabi-related Strategic Condition set forth on , such condition shall be deemed satisfied if FoundryCo shall have performed in all material respects all obligations in its reasonable control, regardless of whether or not such Strategic Condition or milestone shall have in fact been achieved.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
provided, however
Appendix H
provided, further
Appendix H
Appendix H
(c) In addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , the obligation of Oyster to purchase any Securities offered on any Funding Date during Phase III shall be subject to approval of the Annual Business Plan for the applicable Fiscal Year in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement and the satisfaction or waiver of the supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to such Funding Date.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
SECTION 7.01. Oyster and Discovery agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause each of its designees to the Board to refrain from taking any action that would prevent, restrict or limit FoundryCo's ability to satisfy each of the applicable conditions precedent set forth in .
Agreement Regarding Conditions Precedent.
Article VI
SECTION 7.02. The Parties agree that in the event of a Force Majeure Event that has directly caused the failure to satisfy any Abu Dhabi-related Strategic Condition set forth in , then the target date for such Strategic Condition shall be automatically extended until such condition has been satisfied, at which time each Shareholder's respective obligations under shall automatically resume.
Force Majeure Event.
Appendix H
Article III
SECTION 7.03. . The Parties agree that any information relating to FoundryCo, the other Shareholder, or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is proprietary to FoundryCo, the other Shareholder or any of their respective Subsidiaries, as applicable, or otherwise not available to the general public, received in connection with this Agreement shall be treated as "Confidential Information" in accordance with of the Shareholders' Agreement.
Confidentiality
Section 5.04
 
SECTION 8.01. In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock as a result of not being able to approve the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2010, Oyster shall be obligated to, and Discovery may if it elects to, continue to fund at the Original Funding Level through the end of Phase I, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and . If at the end of such Fiscal Year, the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 is approved in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement, then funding shall be at the Original Funding Level, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and . If at the end of such Fiscal Year, the Annual Business Plan for the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 is not so approved, then the provisions of below shall apply.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase I.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(a)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.02
SECTION 8.02.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase II.
(a) In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock with respect to any Fiscal Year of Phase II, Oyster shall continue to provide funding in an amount at least equal to the Minimum Funding Level and up to the Original Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , until either (i) approval of the Annual Business Plan, in which case Oyster's funding commitment shall revert to the Original Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , or (ii) Oyster notifies FoundryCo that it has elected to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period, in which case will become effective immediately upon such notice.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(b)
Section 8.04
(b) In the event Oyster does not elect to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to , Oyster shall, within five (5) Business Days of the end of each fiscal quarter, provide FoundryCo with notice of the amount of funding Oyster is committing to fund for the following fiscal quarter, FoundryCo shall include such amount in any First Funding Notice delivered with respect to such following fiscal quarter, and the funding procedures set forth in shall otherwise continue to apply.
Section 8.02(a)(ii)
Article III
SECTION 8.03.
Business Plan Deadlock Resolution During Phase III.
(a) In the event of a Business Plan Deadlock with respect to any Fiscal Year of Phase III, Oyster shall continue to provide funding in an amount at least equal to the Transition Funding Level and up to the Phase III Alternate Funding Level, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and (other than the approval of the Annual Business Plan), until either (i) approval of the Annual Business Plan, in which case Oyster's funding commitment shall revert to the level set forth in such approved Annual Business Plan, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and , or (ii) Oyster notifies FoundryCo that it has elected to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period, in which case will become effective immediately upon such notice.
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(c)
Section 6.01
Section 6.02(c)
Section 8.04
(b) In the event Oyster does not elect to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to , Oyster shall, within five (5) Business Days of the end of each fiscal quarter, provide FoundryCo with notice of the amount of funding Oyster is committing to fund for the following fiscal quarter, FoundryCo shall include such amount in any First Funding Notice delivered with respect to such following fiscal quarter, and the funding procedures set forth in shall otherwise continue to apply.
Section 8.03(a)(ii)
Article III
SECTION 8.04. . If Oyster elects to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to or , then the Parties agree that such Transition Period shall be governed by the following:
Transition Period
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
(a) Prior to any request for equity funding from the Shareholders, the Management Team shall have first complied with the obligation regarding Debt Financing set forth in .
Section 2.01(b)
 
(b) The funding procedures set forth in shall continue to apply.
Article III
(c) Oyster shall only be obligated to provide funding through the Transition Period at the Minimum Funding Level in the case of a Transition Period during Phase II and at the Transition Funding Level in the case of a Transition Period during Phase III, in each case subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in and the supplemental conditions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3(a) under Legal Conditions on on or prior to any Funding Date.
Section 6.01
Appendix H
(d) The Shareholders shall jointly pursue, in good faith, transition options during the Transition Period, including without limitation, winding-down, selling or liquidating FoundryCo.
(e) Upon termination of the Transition Period, Oyster shall have the option to purchase in cash, in accordance with of the Shareholders' Agreement, any or all Securities (valued at their Fair Market Value) held by Discovery and its Permitted Transferees at a price equal to their Fair Market Value.
Section 3.11
SECTION 9.01. . This Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) a written agreement to that effect, signed by all Parties hereto then possessing any rights hereunder, and (ii) the termination of the Transition Period. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this (Termination), all rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder (except for (Confidentiality), this , (Notices), (Governing Law; Arbitration), Section 9.13 (Expenses) and (Defined Terms)) shall terminate.
Termination
Section 9.01
Section 7.03
Section 9.01
Section 9.02
Section 9.10
Appendix A
SECTION 9.02. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be given or made in accordance with of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Notices
Section 14.01
SECTION 9.03. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
SECTION 9.04. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
SECTION 9.05. . This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of each Party hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such Party) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void, , , that Oyster may assign all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement without any consent to any Permitted Transferee.
Assignment
provided
however
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each Party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with .
Amendment
Section 9.07
 
SECTION 9.07. . Any Party to this Agreement may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of any other Party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of other Parties contained herein or in any document delivered by other Parties pursuant hereto or (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of other Parties or conditions to such Party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the Party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of any Party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
Waiver
SECTION 9.08. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of any Party, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries
SECTION 9.09. Each of the Parties hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated pursuant to this Agreement.
Further Assurances.
SECTION 9.10. .
Governing Law; Arbitration
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to principles of the conflict of laws.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one Party to the other(s), to a senior executive from each Party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the Rules of the London Court of International Arbitration (the "") then in effect, as amended by this Section 9.10, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 9.10. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three. Each Party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators nominated by the Parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal (as such terms are defined in the LCIA Rules). If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court (as such term is defined in the LCIA Rules) shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a Party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Parties, and, subject to this Section 9.10(c) and to Section 9.10(d), may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the Parties. In the event any Party
LCIA Rules
 
subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a Party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the Parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the Parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the Parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the Parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 9.10; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 9.10).
Interim Relief Proceeding
(d) Oyster hereby irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law whatever defense it may have of sovereign immunity against suit or enforcement, for itself and its property (presently owned or subsequently acquired, and whether related to this Agreement or not), in: (i) any arbitration proceedings commenced and held in London, England in accordance with Section 9.10(c); (ii) any Interim Relief Proceeding commenced and held in a court of competent jurisdiction in London, England, in accordance with Section 9.10(c); (iii) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction located in London, England to confirm an award rendered by the arbitrators in accordance with this Section 9.10; and (iv) any proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce an award, and Oyster agrees that it will not raise, claim or cause to be pleaded any such immunity at or in respect of any such action or proceeding.
(e) The Parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 9.02. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any Party's behalf, such Party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a Party requiring another Party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other Party fails to do so, the Party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other Party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the Parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.
SECTION 9.11. . Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to currency, monetary values and dollars set forth herein shall mean United States (U.S.) dollars and all payments hereunder shall be made in United States dollars.
Currency
SECTION 9.12. . Each Party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each of the Parties hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting party has no application and is expressly waived.
No Presumption Against Drafting Party
 
SECTION 9.13. . Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, all costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and in closing and carrying out the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Party incurring such costs or expenses.
Expenses
SECTION 9.14. This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
. For purposes of this Agreement:
Certain Defined Terms
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Additional Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Affiliate
"" or "" means this Funding Agreement between the Parties hereto (including the Appendixes hereto) and all amendments hereto made in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Agreement
this Agreement
"" means the then current annual business plan and budget of FoundryCo that has been approved by the Board in accordance with this Agreement and the Shareholders' Agreement.
Annual Business Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Authorization
"" means the Board of Directors of FoundryCo, as specified in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Board
"" means any day that is not a Friday, a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by Law to be closed in The City of New York or in Abu Dhabi.
Business Day
"" means (i) cash on hand and any credit balance in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency on any current savings or deposit account with any bank that is repayable on demand or upon and not more than ninety (90) days' notice; (ii) securities denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency that are not convertible into any other form of security and are rated or issued by any Person rated Aa2 or better by Moody's or AA or better by Standard & Poor's; (iii) securities denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency that are not convertible into any other form of security and are rated at least P-1 by Moody's or A-1 by Standard & Poor's; (iv) certificates of deposit denominated in United States dollars, Euros or any other currency issued by, and acceptances so denominated by, banking institutions authorized under applicable legislation which at the time of making such issue or acceptances, have outstanding debt securities rated as provided in clause (iii) above, and (v) such other securities (if any) as are approved as such in writing by each of Discovery and Oyster which, in each case, have no more than twelve (12) months to final maturity.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
"" means a promissory note of FoundryCo, convertible into Class A Preferred Shares, substantially in the form attached as hereto.
Class A Convertible Note
Appendix I
"" means the Class A preferred shares of FoundryCo, with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class A Preferred Shares
"" means a promissory note of FoundryCo, convertible into Class B Preferred Shares, substantially in the form attached as hereto.
Class B Convertible Note
Appendix J
"" means the Class B ordinary shares of FoundryCo, with rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" means the Class B preferred shares of FoundryCo, with the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Class B Preferred Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing
 
"" means the date of the Closing, as further described in of the Master Transaction Agreement.
Closing Date
Section 2.03
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Consent
"" (including the terms "" and ""), with respect to the relationship between or among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or indirectly or as trustee, personal representative or executor, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as trustee, personal representative or executor, by contract, credit arrangement or otherwise.
control
controlled by
under common control with
"" means the Class A Convertible Notes and the Class B Convertible Notes.
Convertible Notes
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Cumulative Gross Margin
Appendix H
"" has the meaning set forth in attached hereto.
Cumulative Revenue
Appendix H
"" is the estimated level of gross third-party debt funding for any Fiscal Year, based on the Original Funding Level scenario, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Debt Funding Level
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Discovery Material Adverse Effect
"" means subsidies in the amount and form approved as of the Closing Date, and as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, in the form of a loan guarantee and cash subsidies provided, or to be provided, by the Federal Republic of Germany and/or the State of Saxony relating to Fab 30, Fab 36 and Fab 38 and not any other fabs in Dresden.
Dresden Subsidies
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Encumbrance
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Fair Market Value
"" means the fiscal year of FoundryCo.
Fiscal Year
"" means the initial five-year capital plan of FoundryCo attached hereto as that includes (i) initial five-year projections of FoundryCo's estimated capital expenditures and revenues, (ii) the amounts of the Dresden Subsidies and New York Subsidies available over such five-year period, (iii) the Original Funding Level and Minimum Funding Level over such five-year period, and (iv) the projected Debt Funding Level and Minimum Debt Funding Level over such five-year period, as amended, modified or revised by the Board in accordance with the Shareholders' Agreement.
Five-Year Capital Plan
Appendix C
"" means any event or circumstance beyond the reasonable control of any Party (other than general industry, business or economic conditions or competitive factors adversely affecting Discovery or FoundryCo) that could not have been avoided by due diligence and use of reasonable efforts by the affected Party, including war (declared or not), hostilities, blockade, revolution, insurrection, riot, fire, flood, earthquake, storm or similar acts of God, change of Law and acts of Governmental Authorities.
Force Majeure Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Group
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
FoundryCo Material Adverse Effect
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
IBM Development and License Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Intel Patent Cross License Agreement
"" means any federal, national, supranational, state, provincial, local or similar statute, law, ordinance, decree, regulation, rule, code, order, requirement or rule of law (including common law).
Law
"" shall mean the chief executive officer and chief financial officer and such other officers of FoundryCo as may be designated as such by the Board.
Management Team
"" means the Master Transaction Agreement by and among Discovery, Oyster and the other parties thereto, dated as of October 6, 2008, as amended.
Master Transaction Agreement
"" means those contracts set forth in of the Disclosure Schedule of the Master Transaction Agreement, as updated by FoundryCo on each Funding Date.
Material FoundryCo Contract
Section 4.13(a)
"" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of FoundryCo filed with the Registrar of Companies in the Cayman Islands.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
"" is the estimated level of gross third-party debt funding for any Fiscal Year, based on the Minimum Funding Level scenario, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan.
Minimum Debt Funding Level
"" is the level of equity funding as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan for any Fiscal Year during Phase II, which is intended to be sufficient to both (i) continue to meet Discovery's volume requirements as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, and (ii) continue to build out both Fab 38 in Dresden and Fab 4x in New York to the capacities required to ensure continued availability of one hundred percent (100%) of the Dresden Subsidies and one hundred percent (100%) of the New York Subsidies, that the cumulative amount of such equity funding shall not exceed $3.582 billion.
Minimum Funding Level
provided, however,
"" means subsidies in the amount and form approved as of the Closing Date and, as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan, in the form of grants, incentives and other benefits provided, or to be provided, by the Empire State Development Corporation, the State of New York and the County of Saratoga relating only to building Fab 4x and not any other fabs in New York.
New York Subsidies
"" means, as of any determination date, the aggregate number of outstanding Class A Preferred Shares and Class B Preferred Shares, assuming conversion of all outstanding Class A Convertible Notes into Class A Preferred Shares and the conversion of all outstanding Class B Convertible Notes into Class B Preferred Shares, each in accordance with the terms set forth therein.
Number of Outstanding Preferred Shares
"" is the level of original equity funding (excluding any Debt Funding Level) as set forth in the Five-Year Capital Plan for any Fiscal Year through Phase II without giving effect to any Minimum Funding Level or Transition Funding Level, that the cumulative amount of such equity funding shall not exceed $5.847 billion.
Original Funding Level
provided, however,
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Oyster/FoundryCo Cash Consideration
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Permitted Transferee
 
"" means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" means the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2010.
Phase I
"" means the period commencing on the first day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2011 and ending on the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2013.
Phase II
"" means the period commencing the first day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2014 and ending on the date this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof.
Phase III
"" is the level of equity funding for any Fiscal Year during Phase III, which shall be sufficient to meet Discovery's MPU volume requirements for such Fiscal Year as set forth in the Wafer Supply Agreement, and shall include additional funding up to, at Oyster's election: (i) the level of funding as set forth in the most recently approved Annual Business Plan, or (ii) a level of funding sufficient to continue to build out the next fabs after Fab 4x, as determined by Oyster in its sole discretion.
Phase III Alternate Funding Level
"" means, as of any determination date, the aggregate number of Securities owned as of such date by a Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees divided by the aggregate number of Securities owned as of such date by both Shareholders and their Permitted Transferees, calculated on an as-converted into Class B Ordinary Shares basis, but excluding (i) any Class B Ordinary Shares or Securities, or securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for any Class B Ordinary Shares or Securities, held by any Person other than a Shareholder and its Permitted Transferees; (ii) the Additional Shares with respect to the Class B Preferred Shares and (iii) any accrued and unpaid interest on the Convertible Notes.
Pro Rata Portion
"" has the meaning set forth in the Shareholders' Agreement.
Reconciliation Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries
"" means any or all of the Class A Preferred Shares, Class B Preferred Shares, Class A Convertible Notes, if any, and Class B Convertible Notes, if any, issued by FoundryCo pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and any securities into which such Securities may be converted, exchanged or exercised.
Securities
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means the Shareholders' Agreement among Oyster, Discovery and FoundryCo, dated as of the date hereof, as may be amended from time to time.
Shareholders' Agreement
"" or "", with respect to any Person, means any and all corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint ventures, associations and other entities controlled by such Person, directly or indirectly or in which such Person directly or indirectly has at least 50% of the voting power to elect the board of directors or other governing body of such entity, , that solely for purposes of this Agreement neither FoundryCo nor any member of the FoundryCo Group shall be deemed to be a Subsidiary of Discovery following the Closing. The foregoing proviso shall be applicable only to this Agreement and shall not be applicable to, and shall have no relevance with respect to, any other agreement, arrangement, understanding, contract, license or mortgage to which any of Oyster, Discovery or FoundryCo, or any of their respective Affiliates, is or may become a party or the interpretation thereof, unless such proviso is included therein.
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
provided, however
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 
"" is the level of equity funding during the Transition Period, which shall be sufficient to meet Discovery's MPU volume requirements for such period, such requirements to be based on binding MPU forecasts for such period delivered and agreed to in accordance with the Wafer Supply Agreement.
Transition Funding Level
"" means a period beginning on the date of notice of Oyster's election to have FoundryCo enter into the Transition Period pursuant to or , as applicable, and ending on the later of (i) twelve (12) months after such date and (ii) the last day of the Fiscal Year ending in 2013.
Transition Period
Section 8.02(a)(ii)
Section 8.03(a)(ii)
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement.
Wafer Supply Agreement
. The following terms have the meanings set forth in the Sections set forth below:
Table of Additional Definitions
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
This (this "") is made this 2nd day of March, 2009, (the ""), by and among (i) Advanced Micro Devices, Inc, a Delaware corporation (""); (ii) with respect to all of the provisions in this Agreement other than those in Sections 5.5(a), 6.2, 7.1 and 7.3(a) and the related provisions in connection with U.S. sales activities only (though without limiting FoundryCo's guarantee obligations pursuant to Section 15.7), The Foundry Company, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("") on behalf of itself and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, including all FoundryCo Sales Entities and FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities, as further set forth herein; and (iii) subject to FoundryCo's guarantee obligations pursuant to Section 15.7, with respect to Sections 5.5(a), 6.2, 7.1 and 7.3(a) and the related provisions in connection with U.S. sales activities only, AMD Fab Technologies US, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FoundryCo ().
W S A
AFER
UPPLY
GREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
.
AMD
FoundryCo
"USOpCo"
WHEREAS, AMD has been in the business of designing and manufacturing semiconductor products;
WHEREAS, AMD desires to transfer its business of manufacturing and sorting semiconductor products to FoundryCo pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement by and among AMD, Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC and West Coast Hitech L.P., dated as of October 6, 2008 (as may be amended from time to time, the "");
Master Agreement
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the parties that this Agreement establish a productive, mutually-beneficial relationship among the parties that will mitigate key risks for each party by establishing volume, capacity and pricing commitments by each party pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS, the parties also desire that this Agreement help establish business processes for the parties to work closely together on planning capacity and supply;
WHEREAS, FoundryCo is a company whose primary purpose is the provision of wafer fabrication foundry services and FoundryCo is willing to provide such services to AMD on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and AMD is willing to engage FoundryCo to provide foundry services to AMD on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, all purchases of Products by AMD will be made from FoundryCo Sales Entities, including USOpCo, and all manufacturing of Products for AMD will be performed by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises of the parties, and of good and valuable consideration, it is agreed by and among the parties as follows:
1. DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Agreement the following capitalized terms are defined in this Section 1 and shall have the meaning specified herein. Other terms that are capitalized but not specifically defined below or in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
1.1 shall mean the actual number of Wafer Outs for GPU Products delivered in a fiscal quarter from the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entities to AMD.
"Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.2 shall mean the actual number of Wafer Outs for GPU Products delivered in a fiscal quarter from all foundry partners to AMD.
"Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand"
1.3 is calculated as Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped divided by Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand.
"Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage"
1.4 shall mean materials or tooling that AMD consigns to the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities for use by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to process AMD's Product orders or to perform services on AMD's behalf, as further set forth in this Agreement, including such materials or tooling (other than Sort Equipment owned by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities on the Effective Date pursuant to the Master Agreement) required by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to provide Sort Services pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
"AMD Furnished Property"
1.5 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.
"AMD Indemnified Parties"
1.6 shall mean the sum of:
"AMD MPU Specific Development Wafer Cost"
(a) During a Period, the number of Development Wafer Starts for MPU Products multiplied by the AMD MPU Specific Direct Material Cost, divided by the sum of the number of Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products and the number of Development Wafer Starts of MPU Products, which, in an equation format, shall be:
 
(b) During such Period, (i)(1) the number of Development Wafer Starts for MPU Products multiplied by the Development Factor and then multiplied by (2) the AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs less the AMD MPU Specific Direct Material Cost, divided by (ii) the sum of (1) the number of Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products and (2) the number of Development Wafer Starts for MPU Products multiplied by the Development Factor, which, in an equation format, shall be:
 
1.7 shall mean the actual cost of Raw Wafers for MPU Products.
"AMD MPU Specific Direct Material Cost"
1.8 shall mean all AMD MPU Specific [****] actually incurred during a Period, other than the AMD MPU Specific [****]. For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, AMD MPU Specific Fixed Cost shall include, and AMD shall pay, [****] for the [****] existing on the Effective Date (which shall be [****] in [****] and [****] in [****]) and [****] for the [****] to be put in [****] to [****] AMD MPU Product [****], and agreed to by the parties, pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1 that have not been recouped by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities.
"AMD MPU Specific Fixed Cost"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.9 shall mean the amount calculated by subtracting (a) the gross inventory dollars attributable to MPU Products manufactured for AMD at the end of a relevant Period from (b) the gross inventory dollars attributable to MPU Products manufactured for AMD at the beginning of such Period (excluding, in each case, Raw Wafers).
"AMD MPU Specific Inventory Change"
1.10 shall mean all [****] and [****] costs incurred in the MPU Product wafer manufacturing process (including [****] Services Cost and [****] cost (which shall include [****] on [****] owned by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities on the Effective Date), and whether or not such wafers are [****] and whether or not such wafers are [****] or are in [****]) and which would properly be included according to industry and accounting standards in the cost of a [****], [****] or a [****]. AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs shall not include [****], nor shall it include [****] or [****] and [****]. AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs shall be equal to the sum of AMD MPU Specific [****] and AMD MPU Specific [****]. In addition, AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs shall be equal to the sum of AMD MPU Specific [****] and AMD MPU Specific [****].
"AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs"
1.11 shall mean FoundryCo's allocation of other costs of goods sold related to MPU Products not otherwise specified as AMD MPU Specific [****], as determined in accordance with industry and accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo, and which includes as of the Effective Date a portion of the [****] of [****] related [****], a portion of the [****] of the [****] organization (mostly within the sub-organization ["****,"] which is almost entirely [****]), a portion of the [****] related to [****], as well as a portion of other costs (including certain [****] allocated to COGS) that are incurred in direct support of the [****] in the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' facilities.
"AMD MPU Specific Other COGS"
1.12 " shall mean the sum of:
"AMD MPU Specific Production Wafer Cost
(a) During a Period, the number of Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products multiplied by the actual AMD MPU Specific Direct Material Cost, divided by the sum of the number of [Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products and the number of Development Wafer Starts for MPU Products, which, in an equation format, shall be:
 
; and
(b) During such Period, (i)(1) the number of Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products multiplied by (2) the AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs less the AMD MPU Specific Direct Material Cost, divided by (ii) the sum of (1) the number of Production Wafer Starts for MPU Products and (2) the number of Development Wafer Starts for AMD MPU Products multiplied by the Development Factor, which, in an equation format, shall be:
 
1.13 shall mean the sum of AMD MPU Specific Production Wafer Cost, AMD MPU Specific Other COGS and AMD MPU Specific Inventory Change.
"AMD MPU Specific Total COGS"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.14 shall mean those AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs actually incurred during a Period, consisting of AMD MPU Specific Direct Materials Cost, and [****] percent ([****]%) of [****].
"AMD MPU Specific Variable Cost"
1.15 shall mean the actual costs incurred by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities in developing AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies.
"AMD-Specific Engineering Expense Allocation"
1.16 shall mean [****] percent ([****]%) of the aggregate [****] fees incurred by FoundryCo according to the [****] and [****] between [****] and AMD dated as of [****], as may be amended from time to time, for both [****] and [****] process technologies, and [****] percent ([****]%) of any additional licenses required specifically for MPU Products.
"AMD-Specific License Fee Allocation"
1.17 shall refer to any manufacturing or sorting process technology used at the time of development by any FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity specifically for AMD. For purposes of example only, as of the Effective Date, the [****] is currently considered an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology. For the avoidance of doubt, [****] process technology, unless specifically designed to manufacture only Products, is not an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology.
"AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology"
1.18 shall mean the Wafer Starts of AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers.
"AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafer Starts"
1.19 shall mean Process Engineering Wafers processed by a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity utilizing an AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology.
"AMD-Specific Process Development Wafers" or "AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers"
1.20 shall mean the portion of AMD MPU Specific Development Wafer Costs incurred to produce AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers. It shall be determined based on the ratio of AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafer Starts] to Development Wafer Starts (for MPU Products).
"AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafer Cost"
1.21 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which a Product is Qualified.
"AMD-Specific Product Qualification Plan"
1.22 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which an AMD-Specific Qualified Process is established and tested at the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity and the MPU Products are manufactured using an AMD-Specific Qualified Process to meet the Specifications.
"AMD-Specific Qualification Plan"
1.23 shall mean the wafer manufacturing processes used at the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity specifically for production of Wafers for AMD with respect to MPU Products, and any other FoundryCo-proprietary wafer manufacturing process approved by the parties specifically to produce MPU Products on AMD's behalf.
"AMD-Specific Qualified Process"
1.24 shall mean the sum of AMD-Specific [****], AMD-Specific [****] and AMD-Specific [****].
"AMD-Specific R&D Costs"
1.25 **** shall mean the [****] of the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' [****] to [****] the [****] of (a) any [****] within the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and (b) any [****] to AMD.
"[
]"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.26 shall mean AMD's MPU Product forecast for the first [****] months of any rolling [****] month MPU Product forecast as set forth in Section 5.1 and in accordance with Section 2.2. For the avoidance of doubt, a "Binding Forecast" shall not include any forecast that requires more capacity to manufacture the relevant Products than the capacity that had been agreed upon pursuant to Section 2.2.
"Binding Forecast"
1.27 shall mean the first [****] months of any rolling [****] month MPU Product forecast.
"Binding Forecast Period"
1.28 **** shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b)(i).
"
[
]
"
1.29 **** shall mean a transaction with or among [****] or any of its subsidiaries and any other person (other than FoundryCo) with respect to (a) a merger, consolidation, business combination or similar transaction of [****], (b) any purchase of an equity interest (including by means of a tender or exchange offer) representing an amount equal to or greater than a [****] percent ([****]%) voting or economic interest in [****], or (c) any purchase of assets, securities or ownership interests representing an amount equal to or greater than [****] percent ([****]%) of the consolidated assets of [****] and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (including stock of [****]'s subsidiaries); provided that a sale or transfer of assets that are not used to manufacture on behalf of [****] shall not be included in the calculation of assets to determine a [****] Change of Control Transaction.
"
[
] Change of Control Transaction
"
1.30 shall mean cost of goods sold in accordance with AMD's standard practices in effect as of the Effective Date.
"COGS"
1.31 shall mean all proprietary or nonpublic information disclosed by one party to another party in connection with this Agreement, whether in graphic, oral, written or electronic form, directly or indirectly, which information (a) is marked as "proprietary" or "confidential" or, if disclosed orally, is designated as confidential or proprietary at the time of disclosure, or (b) provided under circumstances reasonably indicating that it constitutes confidential and proprietary information.
"Confidential Information"
1.32 shall mean a factor calculated once per fiscal year (within the first fiscal quarter of a year for application to that fiscal year) by FoundryCo to reflect [****] for processing [****] versus a [****] Wafer. The Development Factor is used for the [****] of AMD MPU Specific [****] for a Period into AMD MPU Specific [****] and AMD MPU Specific [****]. The Development Factor consists of a factor for [****] and a factor for [****] that are consolidated into one factor (weighted with the [****] of the respective [****] categories). The development factor for [****] reflects the higher effort due to engineering times before, during and after processing [****], e.g. creation of ERFs, writing reports, R&D-analysis, and split lots. The calculation is based on [****] via [****] for representative ERFs and on processing data of the ERFs in the manufacturing execution system (currently [****]). The development factor for [****] reflects the [****] for [****] versus a [****]. The data is collected and calculated through a software tool. Output of this software tool is per [****] per [****] versus [****] per [****] over [****]. This [****] will be weighted with the running [****] per [****]. As of the Effective Date, the Development Factor is [****].
"Development Factor"
1.33 shall mean the combined Wafer Starts of AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers and Product Development Wafers.
"Development Wafer Starts"
1.34 shall mean one of the semiconductor devices on a Wafer produced by FoundryCo for AMD using a Qualified Process.
"Die"
1.35 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(b).
"Dispute"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.36 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(b).
"Dispute Notice"
1.37 shall mean x86-based semiconductor devices or any other device based on new architecture or architecture adopted in the future, in each case, other than MPU Products that are used in systems that have targeted applications, and which are not designed for use as central processing units for general purpose desktop, notebook, workstation, server computers or game consoles. Embedded Products shall include AMD's Geode product lines.
"Embedded Products"
1.38 shall mean any change to the process, materials, equipment, technology, location or any other items listed in FoundryCo's standard specifications for which a change would affect the performance, function or reliability of the Wafers.
"Engineering Change"
1.39 or shall mean an engineering request form submitted by AMD to FoundryCo to carry out an experiment in a process line.
"Engineering Request Form"
"ERF"
1.40 shall mean those Wafers required for the Qualification Plan or delivered to AMD for testing pursuant to AMD's request. Engineering Wafers consist of Process Development Wafers and Product Development Wafers.
"Engineering Wafers"
1.41 shall mean the occurrence of an average in-field failure rate of [****] percent ([****]%) or more per month of the total units for a particular Product delivered in any rolling [****] month period.
"Epidemic Failure"
1.42 shall mean the costs required by FoundryCo to establish new facilities or to convert existing facilities to new wafer sizes (e.g., from 200mm to 300mm) and any other costs which FoundryCo would otherwise include in this category.
"Fab Start up Costs"
1.43 shall mean a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast describing the monthly Wafer Outs expected to be placed by AMD on FoundryCo Sales Entities for GPU Products.
"Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand"
1.44 shall mean a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast describing the total Wafer Outs expected to be placed by AMD on all foundry partners for GPU Products.
"Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand"
1.45 is calculated as Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand divided by Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand.
"Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage"
1.46 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
"FoundryCo Indemnified Parties"
1.47 shall mean FoundryCo and any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of FoundryCo to which FoundryCo has delegated the responsibility to manufacture Products for AMD in accordance with this Agreement.
"FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities"
1.48 shall mean USOpCo and any other direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of FoundryCo to which FoundryCo has delegated the responsibility to process purchase orders from AMD and to offer to sell and sell Products to AMD in accordance with this Agreement.
"FoundryCo Sales Entities"
1.49 shall mean both (a) MPU Products that incorporate GPU Products and (b) GPU Products that incorporate MPU Products; for purposes hereof, subsection (iv) of the "MPU Products" definition referring to "Fusion Products" shall not apply.
"Fusion Products"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.50 shall mean gases, acids and chemicals.
"GAC"
1.51 shall mean standard general and administrative expenses, as calculated by FoundryCo in accordance with accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo.
"G&A Expenses"
1.52 "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c)(ii).
GPU Minimum Percentage
1.53 shall mean an integrated or discrete graphics processing unit. As an example, as of the Effective Date, GPU Products consist of integrated or discrete graphics processing unit for use in any of the following or similar products: desktop computers, notebook computers, servers, workstations or game consoles.
"GPU Product"
1.54 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.11(c).
"Interim Relief Proceeding"
1.55 shall mean the time between the date an order is accepted by a FoundryCo Sales Entity and the date the Wafers are made available for shipment by the FoundryCo Sales Entity.
"Lead Time"
1.56 shall mean a change to a manufacturing process that would affect the form, fit, or function of a Product of AMD or that otherwise materially affects a manufacturing process for AMD.
"Major Change"
1.57 "shall mean the minimum total number of Wafers in a Process Batch for a particular Product.
Minimum Batch Size
"
1.58 shall mean any of the following: (i) the x86, x86-64, and IA (Intel Architecture)-64 families of microprocessors, (ii) any existing or new microprocessors based on the x86, x86-64, and IA-64 family architecture, or any new instruction set for a processor described in clause (i) first introduced by AMD, (iii) any microprocessors based on new architecture or an architecture adopted in the future, or (iv) Fusion Products. As used in this definition, a microprocessor shall include a component that can execute computer programs and is the central processing unit controlling an electronic device.
"MPU Products"
1.59 shall mean any future integrated circuit devices designed by AMD other than GPU Products and MPU Products.
"Other Future Products"
1.60 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
"Partnership Committee"
1.61 shall mean a fiscal month or fiscal quarter, as applicable to the specific measurement period in question.
"Period"
1.62 " shall mean a group of wafers that are processed together as a group.
"
Process Batch
1.63 shall mean Engineering Wafers produced by a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity to enable it to design, develop, establish, test, improve and validate FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity manufacturing processes. For avoidance of doubt, Process Development Wafers or Process Engineering Wafers shall not include Engineering Wafers expressly requested by AMD, which shall be counted as Product Development Wafers.
"Process Development Wafers" or "Process Engineering Wafers"
1.64 shall mean a specific geometry loosely based on minimum line width at which semiconductor integrated circuit devices, and the photomasks or reticles used in the manufacture of those devices, are manufactured (e.g., a 45 nm process node). For avoidance of doubt, Process Nodes shall include half nodes (e.g., 40nm and 28nm process nodes).
"Process Node"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.65 shall mean an integrated circuit device incorporating AMD's proprietary designs to be manufactured by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and sold to AMD by the FoundryCo Sales Entities, including Embedded Products, GPU Products, MPU Products and Other Future Products. The Products will be provided to AMD as unprobed Wafers, probed Wafers or bumped Wafers, as specified in the applicable purchase order.
"Product"
1.66 shall mean Engineering Wafers requested by AMD and produced by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to test, evaluate and validate Product designs, including, but not limited to, design verification and engineering verification.
"Product Development Wafers"
1.67 shall mean the portion of AMD MPU Specific Development Wafer Cost related to Product Development Wafer Starts, determined as the ratio of Product Development Wafer Starts to Development Wafer Starts (for MPU Products).
"Product Development Wafer Cost"
1.68 shall mean the Wafer Starts of Product Development Wafers.
"Product Development Wafer Starts"
1.69 shall mean the finished silicon wafers for the Products to be manufactured by the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities in accordance with the applicable Specifications and using the Qualified Processes, and shall include Risk Starts.
"Production Wafers"
1.70 shall mean Wafer Starts for Production Wafers.
"Production Wafer Starts"
1.71 shall mean the qualification tests and schedules to be agreed upon by the parties under which a Qualified Process is established and tested at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and relevant Wafers are manufactured using the Qualified Process to meet the Specifications.
"Qualification Plan"
1.72 or shall mean the mutual determination that the relevant Wafers meet the Specifications in accordance with the applicable Qualification Plan for a particular Product.
"Qualification"
"Qualified"
1.73 shall mean the wafer manufacturing processes used at FoundryCo for production of relevant Wafers, and any other FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity proprietary wafer manufacturing process approved by the parties to produce relevant Wafers.
"Qualified Process"
1.74 "" or "" shall mean business reviews held every fiscal quarter by the Partnership Committee or their designees as mutually agreed to by the parties.
Quarterly Business Reviews
QBRs
1.75 "" or "" shall mean technical reviews held every fiscal quarter by the Partnership Committee or their designees as mutually agreed to by the parties.
Quarterly Technical Reviews
QTRs
1.76 shall mean research and development.
"R & D"
1.77 shall mean unprocessed or bare silicon wafers purchased by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities and used by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities as a substrate to enable the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to fabricate Wafers on behalf of AMD as set forth in this Agreement.
"Raw Wafers"
1.78 shall mean the actual cost to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities of a Raw Wafer.
"Raw Wafer Cost"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.79 shall mean a recall, field correction, market withdrawal, stock recovery, or other similar action with respect to any Products delivered under this Agreement and related to manufacturing of such Products (and not related to AMD's Product designs or Specifications) other than Engineering Wafers.
"Recall"
1.80 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b).
"Relevant Executive Officer"
1.81 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.1.
"Representatives"
1.82 shall mean with respect to Confidential Information, information in non-tangible form which may be incidentally retained in the unaided memory of the receiving party's personnel having had access to the Confidential Information of the disclosing party, and which such personnel cannot identify as Confidential Information of the disclosing party. Such personnel's memory is "unaided" if the personnel have not intentionally memorized any Confidential Information of the disclosing party.
"Residual Information"
1.83 shall mean Production Wafer Starts for Products that have yet to be accepted by a customer. Process Development Wafers and Product Development Wafers are not Risk Starts.
"Risk Starts"
1.84 shall mean request for quotation with respect to the [****] of [****] as specified in Exhibit B.
"RFQ"
1.85 shall mean return material authorization. An RMA process is a process by which Products are identified as defective, returned to a FoundryCo Sales Entity or scrapped, and the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity or FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity undertakes specified remediation activities and provides refunds or credits, as further specified in Exhibit E.
"RMA"
1.86 shall mean a percentage of the Target Yield for each Product, as determined by the Partnership Committee on a Product by Product basis.
"RMA Threshold"
1.87 shall mean standard sales and marketing expenses, as calculated by FoundryCo in accordance with accounting standards as generally applied by FoundryCo.
"Sales and Marketing Expenses"
1.88 shall mean use of a layered silicon-insulator-silicon substrate in the process of manufacturing Wafers.
"SOI"
1.89 shall mean equipment owned as of the Effective Date by FoundryCo to perform Sort Services for MPU Products.
"Sort Equipment"
1.90 shall mean the wafer testing and sorting services to be provided by the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities upon agreement of the parties to determine conformance of the Wafers with the Specifications.
"Sort Services"
1.91 shall mean all cost incurred in providing Sort Services, including the depreciation on Sort Equipment.
"Sort Services Cost"
1.92 shall mean the AMD Product specifications agreed upon by the parties on a Product by Product basis, initially consistent with AMD's current specifications for existing Products currently being manufactured by AMD as of the Effective Date.
"Specifications"
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
1.93 shall mean the anticipated Yield for each Product determined on a fiscal quarter basis by the parties as set forth in Section 3.7.
"Target Yield"
1.94 **** shall mean [****].
"[
]"
1.95 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.3.
"Transition Period"
1.96 shall mean the Transition Services Agreement between AMD and FoundryCo dated of even date herewith.
"Transition Services Agreement"
1.97 **** shall mean [****].
"[
]"
1.98 shall mean Engineering Wafers, Production Wafers, or both, as applicable.
"Wafers"
1.99 shall mean completed Wafers processed for delivery to AMD.
"Wafer Outs"
1.100 shall mean the price of Wafers quoted by FoundryCo Sales Entities to AMD on a Product by Product basis and thereafter set forth on a purchase order from AMD to the FoundryCo Sales Entities.
"Wafer Price"
1.101 shall mean Wafers that have started the manufacturing process.
"Wafer Starts"
1.102 shall mean the time following delivery of a Product when the performance warranty set forth in Section 9.1 is available for such Product. This Warranty Period shall be reviewed and approved by the Partnership Committee on a Product by Product basis, but in the absence of a specific Warranty Period approved by the Partnership Committee, the default Warranty Period for a Product will be [****] months.
"
Warranty Period
"
1.103 shall mean the actual percentage of Die on a Wafer that conform to the Specifications as measured at Wafer sort.
"Yield"
1.104 shall mean the percentage of Die on a Wafer that do not conform with the Specifications as measured at Wafer sort.
"Yield Loss"
2. PURCHASE AND CAPACITY COMMITMENTS
2.1
Purchase Commitments.
(a) . During the term of this Agreement and subject to Section 2.1(b), AMD agrees to purchase all of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' MPU Product requirements from FoundryCo Sales Entities in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, provided that if FoundryCo is not in compliance with its obligations to provide the agreed to capacity or to provide all of the MPU Products pursuant to the Binding Forecasts and applicable purchase orders in a timely manner, within the Yield requirements, on Qualified Processes and in accordance with the Specifications, then the parties agree to meet, discuss and implement a mutually acceptable corrective action plan to address such non-compliance as well as a mutually acceptable plan to allow FoundryCo to provide the agreed to capacity and to provide all of the MPU Products pursuant to the Binding Forecasts and applicable purchase orders in a timely manner, within the Yield requirements, on Qualified Processes and in accordance with the Specifications going forward. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that AMD acquires a business from a third party that either manufactures or has manufactured MPU Products, then AMD shall have a commercially reasonable period of time to transition
MPU Products
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
manufacture of such MPU Products to FoundryCo; provided that such period of time to transition shall not exceed two (2) years from the date of such acquisition, unless consented to by FoundryCo (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
(b) .
Second Sourcing
i. Notwithstanding Section 2.1(a), AMD may source up to [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' quarterly MPU Product Wafer requirements with [****] at Process Nodes of [****] nm or greater, until [****] establishes a fabrication facility at an [****] outside [****] with Qualified Processes to manufacture the applicable MPU Products for AMD.
ii. If at any time while AMD may purchase the applicable MPU Products from [****], FoundryCo cannot deliver in a timely manner Qualified Products produced on Qualified Processes that meet the Specifications in accordance with Binding Forecasts, the Partnership Committee shall promptly address the situation, including conducting a prompt review process and implementing a corrective action plan. If, however, such failure to so deliver such Products is causing AMD to fail to meet its material commitments to its customers, and AMD as a result needs to purchase greater MPU Product volumes from [****] than otherwise set forth above, AMD may increase its purchases at [****] for the affected MPU Products above the [****] percent ([****]%) maximum to meet such customer requirements. AMD may thereafter continue to purchase MPU Products over the [****] percent ([****]%) maximum until such time as FoundryCo demonstrates, as mutually agreed upon, that FoundryCo can meet the relevant Specifications and Yields for such MPU Product in a manner reasonably comparable or better than those of [****], as well as meet the applicable supply commitments set forth in this Agreement or as actually required by AMD.
iii. Upon request from AMD and [****], FoundryCo agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide technical assistance to [****] with respect to an agreed upon plan to enable [****]'s efforts to manufacture the applicable MPU Products, including, subject to any applicable third-party sublicensing and disclosure restrictions, granting access and rights to necessary process technology, provided that [****] agrees to use such assistance solely to manufacture applicable MPU Products for AMD and to enter into a confidentiality agreement reasonably satisfactory to FoundryCo. AMD agrees to bear the reasonable expenses approved in advance by AMD and actually incurred by FoundryCo to provide such assistance.
iv. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, upon the occurrence of [****] Change of Control Transaction, AMD shall not be permitted thereafter to engage [****] as a second source manufacturer of any MPU Products, subject to a reasonable wind-down period to move the production of the applicable MPU Products to Qualified Processes at the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities without materially affecting AMD's supply obligations to its customers. FoundryCo agrees, in good faith, to work with AMD to resolve any issues related to AMD's ongoing customer relationship as a result of AMD's inability to engage [****] as a second source manufacturer. Notwithstanding the foregoing and except for the reasonable transition period contemplated in the final sentence of Section 2.1(a), to the extent the relevant MPU Products were being made by [****] or [****] at the time AMD acquired the applicable business pursuant to the final sentence of Section 2.1(a), AMD agrees not to second source any MPU Products from [****] or [****] or any company controlled by [****] or [****].
(c)
GPU Products.
i. AMD commits to, and the parties agree to work together, to establish FoundryCo's ability to manufacture GPU Products via a high volume bulk 32 nm process with Specifications to be agreed upon in advance by the parties in writing.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
ii. At such time as FoundryCo has established a 32 nm Qualified Process, AMD agrees, subject to this Section 2.1(c), that it will purchase from FoundryCo Sales Entities at least [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' monthly Wafer requirements for the GPU Products at all Process Nodes, as further detailed in Exhibit C, ramping up linearly over a five (5) year period beginning with the fiscal month in which the initial [****] percent ([****]%) GPU Product volume sourcing commitment has been met, to at least [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's Wafer requirements of its GPU Products (such minimum percentage, the ""). If for an applicable quarter it is determined that AMD has not placed the GPU Minimum Percentage of AMD's and the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' GPU Products for manufacture by FoundryCo as set forth herein, the parties agree to meet, discuss and implement a mutually acceptable corrective action plan to address such non-compliance and to enable FoundryCo to manufacture higher volumes of the GPU Products in future.
GPU Minimum Percentage
iii. For each GPU Product (including the first-tape out of such GPU Product), FoundryCo shall have a [****] in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B to manufacture such GPU Product. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that FoundryCo shall have such [****] in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B with respect to each GPU Product (whether or not such GPU Product is first GPU Product) at each [****] of [****].
iv. AMD agrees not to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its or the Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries' assets related to GPU Products and related technology (including the equity interests of ATI Technologies ULC or its other subsidiaries that own such assets) to any person (other than to AMD or another Remaining Discovery Subsidiaries) without the consent of FoundryCo, unless the transferee (A) agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement with respect to GPU Products, including FoundryCo's [****] with respect to each GPU Product and the GPU volume commitment set forth in this section 2.1(c), and (B) agrees to purchase, on an annual basis, GPU Products in an amount equal to the GPU Minimum Percentage (determined at the time of such transfer) of AMD's volume of total GPU Products purchased from any foundry during the one (1) year period before such transfer, or if such transfer takes place less than one (1) year from the Effective Date, then the annualized volume for the period from the Effective Date to such transfer date.
(d) . FoundryCo shall continue to manufacture the Embedded Products (other than such Products on [****]nm technology), in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, that AMD is manufacturing as of the Effective Date so long as AMD gives FoundryCo commercially viable volumes, as determined by the Partnership Committee.
Embedded Products
(e) . AMD shall have no purchase commitment with respect to any Other Future Products; provided, however, that in the event AMD introduces a tape-out of any Other Future Products, FoundryCo shall have a right of first refusal in accordance with the process set forth in Exhibit B to manufacture such Other Future Product (including the first tape-out of such Other Future Product), subject to Qualification of such Other Future Product at such Process Node.
Other Future Products
2.2 The parties agree to work in good faith to review the forecast with respect to MPUs provided by AMD pursuant to Section 5.1, including a review of all incremental capital costs and expenditures expected to be incurred by FoundryCo resulting from any increase in the MPU Product volumes pursuant to the MPU Product forecasts. Upon completion of such review, and to the extent agreed to by the parties regarding the implementation of any additional capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities, FoundryCo shall allocate such additional capacity sufficient to produce the MPU Product volumes indicated in the relevant Binding Forecasts. The parties agree to act in good faith and in reasonable manner in connection
Capacity Commitment.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
with such review and any agreement to allocate such capacity. The parties agree to establish capacity requirements in writing in advance for the manufacture and supply of GPU Products. Notwithstanding the foregoing, FoundryCo will use commercially reasonable efforts to fill any unutilized capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities that has been allocated to AMD as set forth in this Agreement with production on behalf of third parties, and FoundryCo will offset AMD's obligations to reimburse FoundryCo's fixed costs for such unutilized capacity by the percentage of such unutilized capacity FoundryCo uses to manufacture products for third parties; provided that FoundryCo shall not be required to fill such unutilized capacity that has been allocated to AMD if there exists unutilized capacity at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities that has not been allocated to AMD.
3. PROCESS IMPLEMENTATION
3.1 The parties will maintain communication via applicable technical personnel to ensure production and delivery of Products in accordance with the requirements as set forth in this Agreement.
Operational Coordination.
3.2 .
Partnership Committee
(a) . The parties hereto shall create a partnership committee (the "") which shall have responsibility for the implementation of this Agreement and for the relationship between FoundryCo and AMD. The Partnership Committee shall be comprised of at least four (4) members, with each of AMD and FoundryCo appointing an equal number of representatives. The Partnership Committee will create or approve general guidelines, policies, and procedures governing the process for determining any specific parameters to be mutually established by the parties (e.g., production volume forecast, customer feedback, Specifications, Target Yields). The Partnership Committee will meet (a) on a quarterly basis, (b) at the request of any party in connection with the resolution of a dispute, and (c) at the reasonable request of any party to address significant issues with respect to this Agreement. The Partnership Committee or its designees will also conduct QBRs and QTRs.
Partnership Committee Composition
Partnership Committee
(b) . If at any point the Partnership Committee members are deadlocked and cannot reach agreement on an issue, the Partnership Committee will notify the relevant executive officer (each, a "") of AMD and FoundryCo of the issue. If the Relevant Executive Officers reasonably determine that the issue warrants further escalation, the Relevant Executive Officers will then discuss the issue in person or by telephone and the parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve the issue for a period of ten (10) Business Days. If the issue is not resolved, as agreed by AMD and FoundryCo, within such ten (10) Business Day period, the issue will be escalated to the chief executive officers of AMD and FoundryCo.
Dispute Escalation
Relevant Executive Officer
3.3 The parties will discuss in good faith the details of the introduction of new process technologies, technology roadmaps and new Process Nodes at FoundryCo (subject to, in each case, any applicable constraints to which FoundryCo may be subject pursuant to any confidentiality obligations (whether oral or in writing) to or confidentiality agreements with third parties) for use to manufacture Products, including production capacity, ramp time, dependencies and Wafer Prices. As between FoundryCo and AMD, FoundryCo will bear all expenses for introducing new process technology and new Process Nodes, as further described in Exhibit A, other than AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies.
New Processes.
3.4 If the parties agree, pursuant to Section 2.1 or otherwise, to add new non-MPU Products for FoundryCo to manufacture on AMD's behalf, AMD and FoundryCo shall agree in writing in advance on the Specifications, the AMD-Specific Product Qualification Plan and the price for such new non-MPU Products.
New Products.
3.5 Upon the agreement of the parties pursuant to a purchase order, FoundryCo will produce Product Development Wafers, using the applicable FoundryCo
Product Development Wafer Production Run.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
manufacturing process, and deliver the Product Development Wafers to AMD in accordance with the AMD-Specific Qualification Plan or the Qualification Plan agreed upon by the parties.
3.6 AMD shall evaluate the Wafers provided by FoundryCo in accordance with the AMD-Specific Qualification Plan or the Qualification Plan, as applicable. The parties will then assess in accordance with the procedures set forth in Exhibit G whether the applicable manufacturing process fulfills the necessary requirements to manufacture the applicable Products in commercial production quantities in accordance with all applicable Specifications and requirements.
Process Evaluation.
3.7 .
Yield Calculation Process and Yield Improvements
(a) . On a fiscal quarter basis within thirty (30) days following the end of the previous fiscal quarter, the parties will meet and review the actual Yields achieved by FoundryCo on a Product by Product basis. The parties will agree in writing on a Product by Product basis for the Target Yields for each Product that will apply to orders placed in the subsequent fiscal quarter. For the first [****] fiscal quarters following the Effective Date, the lot average actual Yields measured over the last completed fiscal quarter prior to the Effective Date for the Products calculated by AMD and provided to FoundryCo shall be used for the Target Yields.
Existing Products on Existing Processes
(b) . For instances where AMD and FoundryCo have agreed that FoundryCo will manufacture a new Product for AMD and will do so on a new process that has not previously been Qualified to manufacture Products for AMD, the Partnership Committee may set a Target Yield, but Yield and Yield Loss percentages will not be calculated until the parties mutually agree that a sufficient number of Wafers have been produced to generate Target Yield data. The parties will establish in advance mutually-acceptable test criteria for determining conformance of the applicable Die to the applicable Specifications so that the Target Yield data will be determined objectively.
New Products on New Processes
(c) . For instances where AMD and FoundryCo have agreed that FoundryCo will manufacture a new Product for AMD and will do so on an existing FoundryCo process that has previously been Qualified to manufacture Products for AMD, the Partnership Committee may set a Target Yield, but the Target Yield will not be calculated until the parties mutually agree that a sufficient number of Wafers have been produced to generate Target Yield data, with a presumption that fewer Wafers will need to be produced to calculate such Target Yield data than would be required for new Products on new processes. The parties will establish in advance mutually-acceptable test criteria for determining conformance of the applicable Die to the applicable Specifications so that the Target Yield data will be determined objectively.
New Products on Existing Processes
(d) . FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts to continuously improve Yields and to decrease Yield Losses for all Products. AMD understands and accepts that design and test program changes instigated by AMD (for instance, by moving test from system level test to wafer sort test) may decrease the Wafer sort Yield and reasonably decrease the Target Yield, and agrees to reset the relevant Target Yield and Wafer sort Yield accordingly. FoundryCo shall notify AMD with respect to such decrease in the Wafer sort Yield and decrease in the Target Yield.
Yield Improvements
3.8 .
Notice of Engineering Change
(a) . FoundryCo shall not remove, destroy, cease production on, or make any Major Changes to, any Qualified Process, or the controlled process parameters or sources, types or grade classifications of materials used on any Qualified Process, with respect to any Product, except (i) in accordance with FoundryCo's then-standard, reasonable engineering change notification process as generally applied to its
Engineering Change Approval
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
customers; (ii) as reviewed and approved by the Partnership Committee on a case-by-case basis; or (iii) in accordance with a mutually agreed-upon process for implementing end-of-life procedures at the request of AMD.
(b) . AMD may request Engineering Changes to a Qualified Process with respect to any Product from time to time. AMD agrees to provide FoundryCo reasonable specifications and rationales for making the process change, as well as propose an effective date for such Engineering Changes. FoundryCo shall respond within a reasonable period of time with a change order advising AMD as to whether it can support such change, and if it can support such change, the impact of such change on Product price, Yield, schedule, materials and work in progress. FoundryCo shall implement the requested Engineering Changes upon written agreement by AMD and FoundryCo of the terms of the change order.
Engineering Change Requests from AMD
3.9 To the extent that it is able to do so based on disclosure obligations to third parties, and upon a specific request from AMD and the receipt by FoundryCo of each relevant consent from its third party customers, FoundryCo agrees to share with AMD the necessary technical and manufacturing information to ensure successful performance and production ramp of Products. Without limiting the foregoing, FoundryCo agrees to provide AMD the information listed in Exhibit D in accordance with the delivery schedules specified in Exhibit D for the applicable information.
Information.
3.10 The parties acknowledge and agree that it is in the best interest of each party that FoundryCo design and implement new processes and new Process Nodes to enable FoundryCo to manufacture Products on behalf of AMD and to obtain additional customers for its services. Therefore, AMD agrees to use reasonable efforts to provide FoundryCo information and assistance to enable FoundryCo to implement manufacturing processes at Process Nodes that are equivalent to or better than similar manufacturing processes at the same or higher Process Nodes in the marketplace. This information sharing between AMD and FoundryCo will be conducted through the Quarterly Technical Reviews and Quarterly Business Reviews or as otherwise agreed by the parties.
Technical Assistance to Enable FoundryCo to Implement New Processes and New Process Nodes.
4. PRODUCTION
4.1 Upon the successful completion of Qualification, the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities will manufacture the Products, utilizing the applicable Qualified Processes, for AMD in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
General.
4.2 .
Sort Services and Sort Equipment
(a) . As part of the Wafer supply services performed by FoundryCo for AMD under this Agreement, FoundryCo agrees to provide the Sort Services on a Product by Product basis as requested by AMD. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, AMD shall consign to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities all equipment and tooling (other than the Sort Equipment described below in Section 4.2(b), but including any upgrade to then existing equipment and tooling) necessary for the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to provide Sort Services, and such equipment and tooling shall be considered AMD Furnished Property subject to Section 4.3 below.
Sort Services
(b) . The Sort Equipment will be owned by FoundryCo pursuant to the Master Agreement. The parties will meet and discuss in good faith with respect to any proposal from FoundryCo or AMD to modify or dispose of any of the Sort Equipment. In the event any or all of the Sort Equipment is no longer useable for providing Sort Services for MPU Products or for products of FoundryCo's other customers due to AMD changes in its test platforms or otherwise, FoundryCo may dispose of such Sort Equipment in any reasonable manner and AMD agrees to reimburse FoundryCo for the difference between (i) the sum of
Sort Equipment
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
(A) [****] percent ([****]%) of the [****] of the disposed Sort Equipment, (B) FoundryCo's reasonable costs to dispose of the Sort Equipment, (C) all [****] and [****] (and any interest related to such [****] and [****]) required to be [****] as a result of such disposition, and (D) incremental taxes incurred by FoundryCo on such disposition, and (ii) the proceeds from the sale of Sort Equipment actually received by FoundryCo. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the proceeds resulting from the sale of such Sort Equipment, less the costs to be reimbursed by AMD as set forth above, including the costs of [****] or [****], results in a net profit from such disposal of the Sort Equipment, then FoundryCo agrees to reimburse AMD the net profit resulting from such disposal of the Sort Equipment.
4.3 AMD may provide FoundryCo AMD Furnished Property from time to time to enable FoundryCo to provide the services specified under this Agreement. All such AMD Furnished Property shall be itemized and agreed upon in writing by the parties from time to time. All equipment and tooling included in the AMD Furnished Property shall be installed at the locations agreed upon in writing in advance and shall not be serviced without the prior written consent of AMD on a case-by-case basis, except that AMD's prior written consent shall not be required if the AMD Furnished Property is serviced by appropriate FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity personnel, by the manufacturer of the AMD Furnished Property, or by an AMD pre-approved vendor. AMD shall bear all reasonable maintenance and other operational costs for all equipment consigned by AMD as part of the AMD Furnished Property. The parties will agree from time to time regarding the nature, quantity and location for all AMD Furnished Property and FoundryCo shall be responsible for the proper storage of the AMD Furnished Property, at AMD's reasonable expense, and for FoundryCo's use of the AMD Furnished Property, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Upon completion of use, or upon termination of this Agreement, FoundryCo shall return such AMD Furnished Property to AMD at AMD's reasonable expense in accordance with AMD's reasonable packing and shipment instructions.
AMD Furnished Property.
4.4 It is anticipated by the parties that AMD may undertake activities as needed at FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity facilities (i) to work with FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to enhance and to improve engineering and quality initiatives with respect to the manufacture of Products for AMD and (ii) to verify maintenance of the AMD-Specific Qualified Processes and the manufacturing of the Products for AMD in accordance with the Specifications. AMD agrees to comply with all applicable safety, security and environmental policies and procedures implemented by FoundryCo at such facilities. In addition, AMD will comply with all confidentiality procedures that separate AMD activities at FoundryCo facilities from other activities related to other FoundryCo customers. FoundryCo agrees to implement reasonable safety, security and environmental procedures at all of its facilities, including reasonable security procedures to protect the confidentiality of AMD's technical information and AMD's personnel for AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology and AMD's Confidential Information.
AMD Activities at FoundryCo Facilities.
4.5 The parties will obtain and manage the reticles for the Products as further specified in Section 5.9 and Exhibit H.
Provision of Reticles.
4.6 As part of the Wafer supply services performed by FoundryCo for AMD under this Agreement, FoundryCo agrees to provide quick turn module assembly line services on a Product by Product basis as reasonably requested by AMD.
Quick Turn Module Assembly Line Services.
4.7 When FoundryCo delivers certain specific [****] equipment that was sold to [****] prior to the Effective Date and recognizes the gain on the sale of such equipment, to the extent such gain reduces manufacturing costs, the gain shall be reversed in calculating AMD MPU Specific Total COGS or AMD MPU Specific Manufacturing Costs for the Period in which such gain was recognized by FoundryCo. For the avoidance of doubt, AMD MPU Specific Total COGS or AMD Specific Manufacturing Costs shall not be reduced in that Period as a result of such gain.
Treatment of Gain on Sale of Specific FoundryCo Equipment.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
5. ORDER AND SHIPMENT
5.1 Beginning on the Effective Date, AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing on a monthly basis a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast of its monthly volume requirements for MPU Products on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the MPU Products listed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the agreement of the parties with respect to any additional capacity requirements as specified in Section 2.2, the forecasts for capacity requirements for MPU Products shall be binding on each party regarding the Binding Forecast Period. AMD shall be required to reimburse FoundryCo for all AMD MPU Specific [****], as part of the MPU Product pricing calculation in Exhibit A, [****] of the [****] of [****] actually [****] during any relevant Period. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the parties agree that the binding capacity for the first [****] years after the Effective Date shall be [****] percent ([****]%) of the capacity at [****] in [****] plus [****] in [****] and any [****] at the request of AMD to manufacture MPU Products during such [****] years per mutual written agreement by the parties.
MPU Product Forecasts.
(a) In the event that during the Binding Forecast Period AMD requests additional capacity and FoundryCo provides such capacity, AMD shall also [****] FoundryCo for the AMD MPU Specific [****], as part of the MPU pricing calculation in Exhibit A, for such additional capacity.
(b) FoundryCo shall, upon receipt of the relevant [****] month rolling forecast, provide AMD, on a quarterly basis, with a non-binding forecast of the AMD MPU Specific [****], AMD MPU Specific [****], AMD-Specific [****] and [****] Wafer [****] (for MPU Products) at a reasonable level of detail required to produce and maintain the capacity requirements contained in such forecast.
(c) FoundryCo agrees to make a good faith effort to provide additional capacity to meet AMD requirements in excess of the capacity allocated to AMD pursuant to this Section 5.1 and Section 2.2; provided, however, that FoundryCo shall not be required to reallocate any capacity that has been committed to its other customers.
5.2 AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing and updated on a monthly basis, a rolling [****] month forecast of its Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the GPU Products listed.
GPU Products.
5.3 AMD shall provide FoundryCo, in writing and updated on a monthly basis, a non-binding, rolling [****] month forecast of its monthly volume requirements for Wafers for Embedded Products on a Product by Product basis, identified by specific technology and Process Node for the Embedded Products listed.
Embedded Products.
5.4 .
Cost Allocation Principles
(a) The cost allocations set forth in Exhibit A are based on the assumption that in the early years of this Agreement following the Effective Date, AMD will likely be the primary customer of FoundryCo, and that it will take time for FoundryCo to establish additional customers to fill capacity at its facilities not used to manufacture Products on behalf of AMD. However, subject to Section 2.2, FoundryCo agrees (i) to make a good faith effort to fill any capacity at its facilities allocated to AMD that is not required to meet FoundryCo's supply commitments under this Agreement by providing foundry services to additional customers and (ii) to offset AMD's obligations to [****] FoundryCo's [****] for such capacity by the [****] of such capacity FoundryCo uses to manufacture products for third party customers.
(b) In addition, subject to Section 2.2, if AMD notifies FoundryCo in writing that despite the binding MPU Product forecast AMD issued pursuant to Section 5.1 above, AMD's actual requirements for MPU Product
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
production will be less than initially forecasted for the applicable Binding Forecast Period, FoundryCo agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to find customers to fill the unneeded capacity and to the extent that FoundryCo does engage alternative customers to fill such capacity no longer needed by AMD, then FoundryCo agrees not to charge AMD for the forecasted, but no longer necessary, capacity for which FoundryCo has found alternative purchasers, provided that the price paid by such alternative purchasers is equal to or greater than the purchase price for the MPU Products to have been manufactured for AMD pursuant to the applicable forecast.
(c) The parties agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to work together to reduce fixed costs and Product production costs, including by improving Yields.
5.5
Purchase Orders.
(a) AMD will purchase Products from FoundryCo Sales Entities pursuant to valid purchase orders referencing this Agreement that specify the purchase order number, type and quantity of Products ordered, the applicable price for such Products, the place(s) of delivery, and required delivery date(s). Purchase orders may take the form of electronic submissions in a mutually-acceptable format (including submissions currently referred to by AMD as "B+B+B files") so long as they contain the same information specified above for purchase orders, even if such submissions may not be referred to specifically as "purchase orders" when transmitted. The applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity shall provide written order acknowledgements by confirmed facsimile, electronic transmission, or other mutually-agreed means as soon as reasonably practicable; provided that such purchase orders shall not be binding until accepted in writing by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no FoundryCo Sales Entity may reject an MPU Product purchase order submitted in accordance with Binding Forecasts and Lead Times, and will not unreasonably delay purchase order acknowledgments or unreasonably reject purchase orders submitted in accordance with applicable forecasts and Lead Times for all other Products. In the event of any discrepancy between any pre-printed terms on a purchase order or sales acknowledgment form or notice and the terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail and any different or additional terms shall be deemed rejected.
(b) Minimum Batch Sizes for Production Wafers shall be determined by FoundryCo on a commercially reasonable basis. Lead Times will be determined by the parties on a Product-by-Product basis. Lead Times shall take into account manufacturing process cycle times, capacity commitment times, materials ordering times, and the like.
5.6 It is anticipated that from time to time there may be instances where an accelerated lead and cycle time is required to serve the needs of AMD. AMD shall have the right to request change orders to existing purchase orders to accelerate production and delivery of specified Products by providing written notice to FoundryCo prior to the delivery of the Products impacted by such change order and FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts to meet such request; provided that, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, such lot acceleration shall be limited to [****] percent ([****]%) of AMD's [****] at [****].
Acceleration.
5.7 Subject to AMD's purchase volume commitments set forth in this Agreement, including the MPU Product purchase requirements set forth in Section 5.1, AMD may cancel any purchase order or portion thereof for Products, without charge, upon [****] days advance written notice to FoundryCo prior to the applicable Wafer Start date. If AMD provides notice of cancellation on or after the applicable Wafer Start date for a Product order, then AMD agrees to pay FoundryCo all verified, reasonable out-of-pocket costs, per a mutually-agreed scrap calculation as further described in Exhibit F, for raw materials and work in process incurred by FoundryCo for the ordered Products under the cancelled purchase order, provided that such raw materials and work in process may not be reasonably used by FoundryCo in fulfilling subsequent purchase orders.
Cancellations.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
5.8 The parties agree to work in good faith with respect to any lot splits and lot holds requested by AMD; provided that, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, no lot hold may extend for a period exceeding [****] days and the total number of Wafers on hold cannot exceed [****] percent ([****]%) of total work in process for AMD.
Lot Splits and Lot Holds.
5.9 FoundryCo agrees to retain reticles for Products for at least [****] months following the last applicable Product delivery for the applicable reticle. At the end of such [****] month period, upon agreement by the parties, FoundryCo may return such reticles to AMD at AMD's expense if no applicable Product has been forecasted by AMD.
Reticle Holds.
5.10 If AMD decides that it will no longer offer for sale and sell a particular Product, AMD will give FoundryCo reasonable prior written notice, and the parties will mutually agree upon and implement an end of life process for the applicable Products, including any Wafers specific to that Product that may still be on hold in accordance with Section 5.8 above. As part of such discussions, the parties will determine the disposition of any reticles specific to that Product.
Product End of Life Procedures.
6. DELIVERY
6.1 The FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities will package the Products for shipment to AMD in accordance with the applicable industry standard specifications, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
Packaging.
6.2 Unless otherwise agreed to by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity and AMD, the Products will be delivered EXW the applicable FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity (Incoterms 2000). Title to Products will pass from the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity to AMD upon receipt of the Products by AMD or its carrier at the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity shipping dock, unless the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity and AMD agree to another location. At AMD's request, the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity will arrange for transportation in accordance with standard industry practice, and AMD shall pay for the transportation of the Products.
Delivery and Risk of Loss.
7. PRICING, R&D CHARGES AND PAYMENT
7.1 The following pricing terms shall apply to all FoundryCo Sales Entities, including USOpCo, and USOpCo and any other FoundryCo Sales Entity shall be bound by the cost determinations set forth in this Agreement.
Pricing.
(a) . The methodology for calculating the pricing for MPU Products is set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto. The same pricing and pricing methodology shall apply to Fusion Products, if and when such Fusion Products are developed by AMD.
MPU Product Pricing
i. MPU Product pricing for the first [****] after the Effective Date shall be the amount as determined under Section 1 of Exhibit A. Such amounts shall be determined based on FoundryCo's capacity in place to manufacture MPU Products for such [****], which shall be [****] percent ([****]%) of the capacity at [****] in [****] plus [****] in [****] and any [****] added at the request of AMD to [****] during such [****] period per mutual written agreement of the parties.
ii. MPU Product pricing for FoundryCo's fiscal years subsequent to such [****] period shall be the amount determined under Section 1 of Exhibit A and based on the FoundryCo manufacturing capacity allocated to AMD pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1. If FoundryCo decides, in accordance with Exhibit D to the Shareholders' Agreement, to [****] a [****] or [****] after the Effective Date in a [****], and the choice of location for such [****] will result in materially increased [****] for the MPU Products, then AMD and FoundryCo shall discuss in good faith [****] measures to make the AMD MPU Specific [****] manufactured at
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
such new facilities reasonably consistent with the AMD MPU Specific [****] for the same type of MPU Products manufactured at [****] of FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities; provided that the parties agree that the [****] in Section 1 of Exhibit A on AMD MPU Specific [****] shall not be amended. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AMD acknowledges and agrees that normal, [****] by foundries to implement new processes or new facilities shall not be taken into account in determining whether a material [****] in [****] has occurred.
(b) . At such time as FoundryCo is able to begin manufacturing GPU Products for AMD, the parties will agree on the applicable pricing for such GPU Products; provided, however, that the parties agree that such prices shall be based on competitive market pricing. The price for Engineering Wafers for GPU Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
GPU Product Pricing
(c) . The pricing for Embedded Products shall be based on competitive market pricing. The price for Engineering Wafers for Embedded Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
Embedded Product Pricing
(d) . The parties will agree on applicable pricing for any Other Future Products; provided, however, that the parties agree that such prices shall be based on competitive market pricing. The price for Engineering Wafers for Other Future Products shall be determined by mutual written agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
Other Future Product Pricing
(e) . AMD shall bear, in addition to the Product pricing agreed upon by the parties, the amount of any freight, insurance, handling and other duties levied on the shipment of Product.
Shipping Costs
(f) . The parties may from time to time agree on a Product by Product basis to alter the method of calculating the pricing for a Product, including to die-buy purchasing models, and regarding situations where Yields may be materially less than Target Yields (but greater than RMA Thresholds) or materially greater than Target Yields.
Price Calculation Process for Products other than MPU Products
7.2
Research and Development Charges.
(a) . The charge for AMD-Specific R&D Costs shall be determined pursuant to Section 2 of Exhibit A. Pursuant to Section 5 of Exhibit A, should FoundryCo produce products for other customers using the AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology, FoundryCo shall pay a rebate amount, if any, to AMD as described therein. Such rebate shall in the form of a credit by FoundryCo against the accounts receivable from AMD.
Charge for AMD-Specific R&D Costs
(b) . Charges for Process Development Wafers shall be determined pursuant to Section 3 of Exhibit A.
Charge for Process Development Wafers
(c) . The charge for Product Development Wafers shall be determined pursuant to Section 4 of Exhibit A.
Charge for Product Development Wafers
(d) ****************. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, FoundryCo shall not charge AMD for its [****], for any [****] and [****], or for any [****], other than as may be provided in the Transition Services Agreement.
[
], [
] and [
] and [
]
7.3
Payment.
(a) The FoundryCo Sales Entities will invoice AMD for all Products (including Product Development Wafers) shipped to AMD in a manner to be mutually agreed by the applicable FoundryCo Sales Entities and
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
AMD. Payment shall be made in U.S. Dollars in cash within forty-five (45) days after the invoice date unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
(b) The prices for MPU Products shall be based on forecasts of the AMD MPU Specific [****] provided by FoundryCo to AMD pursuant to Section 5.1(b). The parties shall true-up at the end of each [****] any difference in such prices based on such forecasts and the actual AMD MPU Specific [****] calculated by FoundryCo at the end of such [****]. If at the end of each fiscal [****] Period, AMD has [****] the [****] to it pursuant to Sections 2.2 and 5.1, FoundryCo shall, as part of a mandatory, [****] true-up process, invoice AMD for the [****] related to such [****]. If, as part of such [****] true-up process, AMD has previously overpaid required amounts, then the amount of overpayment will be deducted from the next payment due from AMD. FoundryCo shall invoice AMD with respect to AMD-Specific [****] at the end of each fiscal [****].
7.4 Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the prices specified in this Agreement are exclusive of any sales, use, excise, consumption or similar taxes, and of any export and import duties, which may be levied upon or collectible by FoundryCo as a result of the sale or shipment of the products to AMD or its customers. AMD agrees to pay and otherwise be fully responsible for any such taxes and duties, unless in lieu thereof AMD provides FoundryCo with an exemption certificate acceptable to the relevant governmental authorities.
Taxes.
8. AUDIT
8.1
Audit.
(a) . FoundryCo shall keep records in sufficient detail to enable AMD to determine the correctness of the pricing for MPU Products, and to determine the correctness of the AMD-Specific R&D Costs allocated to AMD, in accordance with Section 7. FoundryCo shall permit said records to be inspected, at AMD's expense, upon reasonable advance notice, during regular business hours by an independent auditor selected by AMD and approved by FoundryCo, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The audit shall only be for the purpose of verifying that the MPU Product prices and the AMD-Specific R&D Cost allocations established in Section 7 have been properly calculated. Inspections conducted under this Section 8.1(a) shall be at AMD's expense, unless a variation or error in FoundryCo's calculations have produced an overcharge of [****] percent ([****]%) or more for the applicable audited period, in which case FoundryCo shall bear the reasonable expenses of such audit. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.4 or this Section 8.1, FoundryCo shall not be obligated to permit AMD to inspect any agreement or terms with other third party customers, including with respect to pricing.
FoundryCo
(b) . AMD shall keep records in sufficient detail to enable FoundryCo to determine that AMD has complied with its second sourcing limitations in Section 2.1(b) and its GPU Product volume sourcing commitments in Section 2.1(c). AMD shall permit said records to be inspected, at FoundryCo's expense, upon reasonable advance notice, during regular business hours by an independent auditor selected by FoundryCo and approved by AMD, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The audit shall be for the purpose of verifying that AMD has complied with its second source restrictions in Section 2.1(b) and its GPU Product sourcing commitments in Section 2.1(c). Inspections conducted under this Section 8.1(b) shall be at FoundryCo's expense, unless AMD has a non-compliance variance adverse to FoundryCo of [****] percent ([****]%) or more of (i) the relevant [****] percent ([****]%) second source restriction or (ii) the GPU Minimum Percentage for the applicable audited period, in which case AMD shall bear the reasonable expenses of such audit.
AMD
9. LIMITED WARRANTY; WARRANTY DISCLAIMER
9.1 FoundryCo represents and warrants that the Products delivered hereunder (other than Engineering Wafers) shall meet the applicable Specifications, and shall be free from defects in material and
Limited Warranty.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
workmanship, under normal use and service during the Warranty Period. If, during the Warranty Period, (i) AMD notifies FoundryCo promptly in writing upon discovery of any defect in the applicable Products, including a reasonable description of the alleged defect, or if Yield Losses exceed pre-established limits, (ii) AMD returns samples of such Products to FoundryCo pursuant to the RMA procedures described in Exhibit E, and (iii) FoundryCo determines in good faith that such Product is defective or corroborates the low Yields and that such defect or low Yield was not caused by any accident, abuse, misuse, neglect, improper installation, repair, alteration or some other action by someone other than FoundryCo, improper testing or use contrary to any instructions issued by FoundryCo, or by any other reason not attributable to FoundryCo, then FoundryCo shall undertake the actions specified in Exhibit F. The warranty in this Section 9.1 does not apply to any failure in conformance or defect to the extent arising as a result of AMD's design nor for any other cause not attributable to defective materials or workmanship or failure to meet Specifications on the part of FoundryCo. This paragraph states the exclusive remedy of AMD and FoundryCo's sole and exclusive obligation for a breach of the foregoing warranty. All Engineering Wafers delivered to AMD are delivered "AS IS," without any warranty of any kind.
9.2 EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN SECTION 9.1, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FOUNDRYCO EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS REGARDING THE WAFERS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, AND INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ALL WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
Disclaimer.
10. INDEMNIFICATION
10.1 Except as provided for in Section 10.2 below, AMD shall, at its own expense, indemnify, defend and hold FoundryCo and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns ("") harmless from and against any liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising from any third party action, claim, suit or proceeding alleging infringement or misappropriation of such third party's patent, trademark, copyright, mask work or other intellectual property rights to the extent arising from (i) FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities making Wafers for AMD in compliance with any AMD's Product designs or Specifications, (ii) the use by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities to make Products for AMD of the same equipment, material, manufacturing methods and process technologies as those used by AMD or its Subsidiaries at the relevant facilities immediately prior to the Effective Date (provided that such indemnity shall not be applicable for this clause (ii) if such use were not in the same manner as that used by AMD or its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Date and the applicable claim directly relates to a FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity's not using such equipment, materials, manufacturing methods and process technologies in the same manner for the same Products as those used by AMD or its Subsidiaries immediately prior to the Effective Date); or (iii) the use by FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities of AMD Furnished Property (provided that such indemnity shall not apply with respect to this clause (iii) if the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities have not used such AMD Furnished Property in accordance with all applicable safety standards and instructions and the applicable claim directly relates to the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities' not complying with the applicable safety standards and instructions); provided that such indemnities shall not apply to such liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses arising from fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence of FoundryCo Indemnified Parties.
AMD Indemnity.
FoundryCo Indemnified Parties
10.2 Except as provided for in Section 10.1, FoundryCo shall, at its own expense, indemnify, defend and hold AMD and its Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns ("") harmless from and against any liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising from any third party action, claim, suit or proceeding alleging infringement or misappropriation of such third party's patent, trademark, copyright, mask work or other
FoundryCo Indemnity.
AMD Indemnified Parties
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
intellectual property rights to the extent arising from FoundryCo's method of manufacturing the applicable Products, providing the Sort Services, or from IP blocks (e.g., standard cell libraries), (except as a result of the use by FoundryCo of the same equipment, materials, manufacturing methods and process technologies as those used by AMD or its subsidiaries at the relevant facilities immediately prior to the Effective Date); provided that such indemnity shall not apply to such liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses arising from fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence of AMD Indemnified Parties.
10.3 The provisions of Section 12.07 of the Master Agreement shall apply in connection with any claim for a loss under this Section 10 as it relates to the indemnified party and the indemnifying party under this Section 10.
Notice of Loss; Third Party Claims.
11. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
11.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, AMD grants FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (and any permitted assignees) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right and license to make Products on behalf of AMD and to import and sell such Products to AMD. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, AMD also grants FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (and any permitted assignees) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right and license to reproduce any documentation provided by AMD hereunder to enable FoundryCo and the applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries (or such permitted assignees) to manufacture the Products on behalf of AMD. All other rights are reserved. AMD confirms that on the Effective Date, AMD has not granted such rights or licenses to AMD's Technology or non-patent intellectual property rights to FoundryCo or any applicable FoundryCo subsidiaries, other than the rights or licenses granted pursuant to this Section 11.1 related to designs or Specifications for the Products and to the AMD Excluded Technology (as defined and listed in the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith).
License Grant.
11.2 Subject to the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith, as among the parties, AMD will own all right, title and interest in and to the designs and Specifications for the Products, and any other documentation that AMD provides FoundryCo pursuant to this Agreement.
AMD Ownership.
11.3 Subject to the Non-Patent Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Agreement between FoundryCo and AMD of even date herewith, as among the parties, FoundryCo will own all right, title and interest in and to any manufacturing process technology that the FoundryCo Manufacturing Entities use to manufacture the Products hereunder.
FoundryCo Ownership.
11.4 This Agreement does not address the development and ownership of new technology or intellectual property rights. If the parties choose to work together to develop new process technology, new product technology, the parties will enter into a separate written development agreement to address the terms and conditions of such development work, and the resulting ownership and licenses applicable to any intellectual property rights created as a result.
Joint Development of New Technology or Intellectual Property Rights.
11.5 None of the parties shall acquire any proprietary right or interest in any trademark of another party by reason of this Agreement.
Trademarks.
12. TERM AND TERMINATION
12.1 This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue until the later of ten (10) years or until the [****] is [****] with a [****] and [****] of at least [****] on Qualified Processes per
Term.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
month, unless terminated earlier by FoundryCo or AMD pursuant to Section 12.2, but in no event longer than fifteen (15) years after the Effective Date. The parties agree to discuss any renewal of this Agreement at least [****] years prior to the anticipated date of its termination under the first sentence of this Section 12.1.
12.2 This Agreement may be terminated as follows:
Termination of Agreement.
(a) The parties may terminate this Agreement upon mutual written consent at any time.
(b) This Agreement may be terminated by FoundryCo or AMD if and when a Business Plan Deadlock (as defined in the FoundryCo Funding Agreement) exists and Advanced Technology Investment Company PJSC elects to enter into the Transition Period (as defined in the FoundryCo Funding Agreement).
12.3 Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, FoundryCo shall use commercially reasonable efforts (i) to cooperate with AMD to assist AMD in the preparation and execution of a plan to transition the supply of Products to another provider; provided that the period of such transition (the ) shall not last more than twenty four (24) months from such expiration or termination of this Agreement; and (ii) to fulfill purchase orders submitted by AMD during the Transition Period. The pricing for MPU Products during the Transition Period shall be based on pricing specified in Section 7, and the exclusivity provision in Section 2.1(a) shall be waived from the beginning of the Transition Period in order to enable AMD to find and qualify a new manufacturing partner or to otherwise obtain manufacturing capabilities for MPU Products. For the avoidance of doubt, during the Transition Period (i) AMD shall continue to provide MPU Product forecasts pursuant to Section 5.1 and (ii) AMD shall be required to reimburse FoundryCo for all AMD MPU Specific [****], as part of the MPU Product pricing calculation in Exhibit A, regardless of the amount of MPU Products [****] manufactured during the Transition Period.
Termination Assistance.
"Transition Period"
12.4 Upon expiration of the term, the licenses granted herein shall terminate (other than with respect to any Products manufactured or delivered during the Transition Period), and FoundryCo shall have no further delivery obligations other than continuing to manufacture and deliver all confirmed purchase orders accepted prior to the expiration of the term or during the Transition Period. Termination of this Agreement shall not affect any payment rights accrued as of the date of such termination or during the Transition Period. The termination of this Agreement shall not release any party from any liability which at said date of termination has already accrued to another party.
Effect of Termination.
12.5 Notwithstanding any termination or expiration of this Agreement, Section 2.2 (with respect to the Transition Period), 5.1 (with respect to the Transition Period), Sections 7 (with respect to the Transition Period), 8 (with respect to the Transition Period), 9, 10, 11.2, 11.3, 11.5, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 13 (for the period specified in Section 13.3), 14, and 15 and the applicable Exhibits and definitions shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement.
Survival.
13. CONFIDENTIALITY
13.1 Each party agrees, and agrees to cause its officers, directors, employees, attorneys, accountants, auditors and agents (collectively, ""), to maintain in confidence the Confidential Information it has received from another party, using the same degree of care to preserve the confidentiality of such Confidential Information that the party to whom such Confidential Information is disclosed would use to preserve the confidentiality of its own information of a similar nature and in no event less than a reasonable degree of care. Except as authorized in writing by the affected party, none of the other parties shall at any time use or disclose or permit to be disclosed any Confidential Information of such party to any
Confidential Information.
Representatives
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
person, firm, corporation or entity, (a) except as may reasonably be required in connection with the performance of this Agreement by AMD, FoundryCo, USOpCo, or FoundryCo's other permitted designees, as the case may be, and (b) except to the parties' Representatives or Affiliates who are informed by the parties of the confidential nature of the information and are bound to maintain its confidentiality.
13.2 The obligation not to disclose information under Section 13.1 hereof shall not apply to information that, (a) becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of disclosure made by the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential, (b) was or becomes readily available to the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential on a non-confidential basis, (c) is or becomes available to the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential on a non-confidential basis from a source other than its own files or personnel or the other parties, provided that such source is not known by the party desiring to treat such information as non-confidential to be bound by confidentiality agreements with the other parties or by legal, fiduciary or ethical constraints on disclosure of such information, or (d) is required to be disclosed pursuant to a governmental order or decree or other legal requirement (including the requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the listing rules of any applicable securities exchange), provided that the party required to disclose such information shall give the other parties prompt notice thereof prior to such disclosure and, at the request of the other parties, shall cooperate in all reasonable respects in maintaining the confidentiality of such information, including obtaining a protective order or other similar order. Nothing in this Section 13.2 shall limit in any respect any party's ability to disclose information in connection with the enforcement by such party of its rights under this Agreement; provided that the proviso of clause (d) in the immediately preceding sentence shall apply to the party desiring to disclose such information.
Exceptions.
13.3 The obligations of the parties set forth in this Section 13 with respect to the protection of Confidential Information shall remain in effect until the later of (a) five (5) years after the date of disclosure and (b) two (2) years after the termination of this Agreement.
Duration.
13.4 Notwithstanding Section 13.1 above, a party receiving Confidential Information shall not be in breach of its confidentiality obligations under Section 13.1 for the inadvertent use of the disclosing party's Residual Information for the receiving party's own business purposes by personnel who no longer has access to any tangible (including machine-readable) embodiments of the applicable Confidential Information of the disclosing party; provided, however that the foregoing shall not apply to any disclosure of the disclosing party's Confidential Information to any third parties, or any use of such Confidential Information by such third parties. This Section 13.4 shall not be deemed to (a) grant to the receiving party a license under any intellectual property rights (excluding trade secrets) of the disclosing party or (b) authorize any use of the tangible (including machine-readable) embodiments of any Confidential Information of the disclosing party.
Residual Information.
,
14. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
14.1 IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OR LOST PROFITS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Damages Waiver.
15. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
15.1 Each party agrees to comply with all applicable state, local and federal laws related to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees to comply with any applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States.
Compliance with Law.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
15.2 It is agreed and understood that neither FoundryCo nor AMD is the agent, representative or partner of the other and neither FoundryCo nor AMD has any authority or power to bind or contract in the name of or to create any liability against the other in any way or for any purpose pursuant to this Agreement.
No Agency.
15.3 Each party shall not be liable for any failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement due to a force majeure event during the term of this Agreement or during the Transition Period, including but not limited to an act of God, flood, earthquake, fire, explosion, interruption or defect in the supply of electricity or water, act of government, war, acts of terror, civil commotion, insurrection, embargo, riots, lockouts, inability to obtain raw materials, or labor disputes. Upon the occurrence of a force majeure event, (a) the affected party shall notify the other parties in writing; and (b) the originally scheduled date shall be deemed extended for a period equal to the time lost by reason of the event except that if such force majeure continues for more than twelve (12) consecutive months without the prospect of cure, AMD (if such affected party is FoundryCo, USOpCo or any FoundryCo permitted designee) or FoundryCo (if such affected party is AMD) shall have the option to terminate this Agreement immediately upon written notice. Upon the cessation of a force majeure event, the affected party shall inform the other parties of the date on which that party's obligations under this Agreement shall be reinstated.
Force Majeure.
15.4 All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by an internationally recognized overnight courier service, by facsimile, by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties hereto at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 15.4):
Notices.
(a) if to FoundryCo:
The Foundry Company
c/o Maples Corporate Services Limited
PO Box 309, Ugland House
Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands
Attention: General Counsel
(b) if to USOpCo:
AMD Fab Technologies US, Inc.
One AMD Place
Sunnyvale, CA 94085 USA
Attention: General Counsel
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
(c) if to AMD:
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
7171 Southwest Parkway
MS B100.T
Austin, Texas 78735
Facsimile: (512) 602-0148
Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Latham & Watkins LLP
140 Scott Drive
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Facsimile: (650) 463-2600
Attention: Tad J. Freese
                 Christopher Kaufman
15.5 If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect for so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
15.6 This Agreement, the Master Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof.
Entire Agreement.
15.7 This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written consent of the other parties hereto (which consent may be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of such parties (provided that USOpCo shall have no such consent right)) and any such assignment or attempted assignment without such consent shall be void; provided, however, that FoundryCo may assign or delegate all or some of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to one or more of its subsidiaries, including USOpCo, any other applicable FoundryCo Sales Entity, or any FoundryCo Manufacturing Entity, without any such consent if FoundryCo guarantees the performance of the obligations that have been so assigned or delegated. Subject to the foregoing obligation by FoundryCo to guarantee USOpCo's performance and any other FoundryCo designee's or assignee's performance, the parties acknowledge that FoundryCo will assign or delegate all or some of such rights hereunder, directly or indirectly, to USOpCo with respect to U.S. sales activities pursuant to one or more intercompany agreements to be entered into on the date hereof by FoundryCo (with copies provided to AMD). Without limiting FoundryCo's guarantee of performance pursuant to this Section 15.7, the parties intend that FoundryCo shall assign or delegate all such rights and obligations, directly or indirectly, to USOpCo to the extent the retention of such rights or obligations could give rise to income to FoundryCo that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States within the meaning of Section 864 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Assignment.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
15.8 This Agreement may not be amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, or on behalf of, each party hereto or (b) by a waiver in accordance with Section 15.9.
Amendment.
15.9 Any party may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of any other party or (b) waive compliance with any of the agreements of the other parties or conditions to such party's obligations contained herein. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the party to be bound thereby. Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition of this Agreement. The failure of any party hereto to assert any of its rights hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights. All rights and remedies existing under this Agreement are cumulative to, and not exclusive of, any rights or remedies otherwise available.
Waiver.
15.10 Except for the provisions of Section 10 relating to indemnified parties, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and delegates and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person, including any union or any employee or former employee of any party, any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
15.11
Governing Law; Dispute Resolution.
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that State, without regard to conflict of law principles.
(b) Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with this Agreement or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, including any question regarding the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination of this Agreement (a ""), shall be referred, upon written notice (a "") given by one party to the other parties, to a senior executive from each party. The senior executives shall seek to resolve the Dispute on an amicable basis within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received.
Dispute
Dispute Notice
(c) Any Dispute not resolved within thirty (30) days of the Dispute Notice being received shall be referred to, and shall be finally and exclusively resolved by, arbitration under the LCIA Rules then in effect, as amended by this Section 15.11, which LCIA Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Section 15.11. The seat, or legal place, of the arbitration shall be London, England. The language of the arbitration shall be English. The number of arbitrators shall be three. Each party shall nominate one arbitrator and the two arbitrators nominated by the parties shall, within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, agree upon and nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Tribunal. If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) days, the LCIA Court shall appoint a third arbitrator to act as Chairman of the Tribunal. The Chairman of the arbitration panel should not be a citizen or a resident of the country of an arbitrator nominated by, or appointed on behalf of, a party nor should the Chairman be a citizen or a resident of the United States of America or the United Arab Emirates. It is hereby expressly agreed that if there is more than one claimant party or more than one respondent party, the claimant parties shall together nominate one arbitrator and the respondent parties shall together nominate one arbitrator. In the event that a sole claimant or the claimant parties, on the one side, or a sole respondent or the respondent parties, on the other side, fails to nominate its/their arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the LCIA Court. Any award issued by the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties, and, subject to this Section 15.11, may be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction by any of the parties. In the event any party subject to such final and binding award desires to have it confirmed by a final order of a court, the only court which may do so shall be a court of
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
competent jurisdiction located in London, England; provided however, that nothing in this sentence shall prejudice or prevent a party from enforcing the arbitrators' final and binding award in any court of competent jurisdiction. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that any breach of the terms of this Agreement could give rise to irreparable harm for which money damages would not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, the parties agree that, prior to the formation of the Tribunal, the parties have the right to apply exclusively to any court of competent jurisdiction or other judicial authority located in London, England for interim or conservatory measures, including, without limitation, to compel arbitration (an ""). Furthermore, the parties agree that, after the formation of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall have the sole and exclusive power to grant temporary, preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance, and any then pending Interim Relief Proceeding shall be discontinued without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties thereto. Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrators pursuant to the terms hereof, the arbitrators' expenses shall be shared equally by the parties. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the parties hereto irrevocably submits to: (i) the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England in relation to any Interim Relief Proceeding and; (ii) the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England located in London, England with respect to the enforcement of any arbitral award rendered in accordance with this Section 15.11; and, with respect to any such suit, action or proceeding, waives any objection that it may have to the courts of England located in London, England on the grounds of inconvenient forum. For the avoidance of doubt, where an arbitral tribunal is appointed under this Agreement, the whole of its award shall be deemed for the purposes of the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 to be contemplated by this Agreement, as the case may be (and judgment on any such award may be entered in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 15.11).
Interim Relief Proceeding
(d) The parties hereto agree that the process by which any arbitral or other proceedings in London, England are begun may be served on them by being delivered to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited or their registered offices for the time being and by giving notice in accordance with Section 15.4. If Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited is not or ceases to be effectively appointed to accept service of process in England on any party's behalf, such party shall immediately appoint a further person in England to accept service of process on its behalf. If within fifteen (15) days of notice from a party requiring another party to appoint a person in England to accept service of process on its behalf the other party fails to do so, the party shall be entitled to appoint such a person by written notice to the other party. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of the parties to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
15.12 Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees it has had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language of this Agreement and that each party hereto has been represented by counsel in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the drafting party has no application and is expressly waived.
No Presumption Against Drafting Party.
15.13 This Agreement may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile transmission) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
WHEREFORE, the parties have signed this Wafer Supply Agreement effective as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
Exhibit List:
Exhibit A  Product Pricing and Cost Allocation
Exhibit B  [****] Process
Exhibit C  Capacity Commitments
Exhibit D  Technical Information
Exhibit E  RMA Process
Exhibit F  Product Scrapping Process
Exhibit G  Manufacturing Process Qualification Procedures
Exhibit H  Reticles/Mask
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
The price for Production Wafers containing MPU Products, regardless of [****] or [****], shall be [****] by AMD MPU Specific [****], as graphically represented in the attachment to this Exhibit A.
1. Price for Production Wafers.
The charge for AMD-Specific R&D Costs shall be determined as follows:
2. Charges for AMD-Specific R&D Costs.
****************
AMD-Specific R&D Costs [
] by the following [
] (such [
], the "AMD-Specific [
]"):
(i) [****] during the first [****] full fiscal months after the Effective Date
(ii) [****] during the remainder of fiscal year [****]
(iii) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(iv) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(v) [****] during fiscal year [****]
(vi) [****] during fiscal year [****]
Notwithstanding the foregoing, FoundryCo shall pay all [****], [****], [****] and other R&D costs, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
The charge for Process Development Wafers shall be determined as follows:
3.
Charges for Process Development Wafers.
a. AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers containing MPU Products  Pursuant to Section 2 above.
b. Process Engineering Wafers containing MPU Products (other than AMD-Specific Process Engineering Wafers)  [****].
c. Process Engineering Wafers (not containing MPU Products)  [****].
The price for Product Development Wafers containing MPU Products shall be determined as follows:
4.
Price for Product Development Wafers Containing MPU Products.
a. For the first [****] after the Effective Date: [****] by the [****].
b. Thereafter: [****] by the [****].
Should FoundryCo produce products for other customers using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies, FoundryCo shall rebate within a reasonable period of time after the end of the relevant fiscal [****] (starting with the end of [****]) [****] or [****], as the [****] be, of the AMD-Specific R&D Costs from the immediately prior [****], as follows:
5. Rebate Amounts.
 
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
provided that such rebate amount shall not be less than zero with respect to any relevant [****].
The parties expect that any products produced for other customers using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technologies are likely to be based on such technology put in place in prior years. Therefore, the parties agree that any rebate amount paid to AMD as specified above at the [****] of any relevant [****] should be based on the AMD-Specific R&D Costs for the immediately prior [****].
As an example, if (a) AMD-Specific [****] with respect to [****] is [****], (b) the [****] of wafer starts using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology for AMD (in [****] total wafer starts using AMD-Specific Manufacturing Process Technology for any customer) in [****] is [****] (thus, such [****] of wafer starts for third party customers is [****]) and (c) AMD-Specific R&D Costs for [****] is $[****], then the rebate amount AMD will receive at the [****] of [****] is ([****]) ($[****]) or $[****].
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
[****] Product Pricing Chart
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
Subject to Section 2.1(c) of this Agreement, AMD will continually provide FoundryCo with the opportunity to respond to GPU Product business opportunities and Other Future Product business opportunities. AMD agrees to invite FoundryCo to participate in the RFQ process for any and all GPU Products and Other Future Products that are being developed within AMD (including the first tape-out of such GPU Product or Other Future Product) that could potentially be manufactured at FoundryCo.
AMD agrees to share present and future product requirements with FoundryCo so that FoundryCo can adequately respond to any RFQ requests coming from AMD. This will be accomplished through Quarterly Technical Reviews and Quarterly Business Reviews.
In the process of awarding business to FoundryCo, AMD will execute a benchmarking process on a product-by-product basis across a number of potential foundry partners (including FoundryCo), covering AMD's technical requirements and design system requirements, along with commercial terms. This benchmarking process can occur at any point in time and may or may not be coincident with the QTR or QBR meetings already occurring. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this benchmarking process shall not be undertaken by AMD with regards to MPU Products.
Subject to Section 2.1(c), in the event that FoundryCo has a [****], as determined by AMD, FoundryCo will be selected as the foundry partner for the development and production of that particular product. In the event that FoundryCo's offer is equivalent to the [****] of another foundry partner, as determined by AMD, FoundryCo will be selected as the foundry partner for the development and production of that particular product.
In the event that after an initial review of the available bids, AMD determines that FoundryCo's [****] is [****], AMD agrees to [****] a [****] with FoundryCo not to exceed [****] and to work collaboratively with FoundryCo during such [****] to attempt to [****] any [****] in the [****] to make the [****]. AMD also agrees that, at the point that AMD engages with FoundryCo on this [****] process, AMD will [****] with [****] to assist [****] in the [****] of their [****]. This [****] may be [****] at AMD's discretion.
After this [****], and subject to Section 2.1(c), if FoundryCo's offer becomes [****], as determined by AMD, AMD will select FoundryCo as the foundry partner for the development and production of that particular product.
In the event that, after this [****], AMD determines that FoundryCo's offer is [****], AMD is free to select another foundry partner as the foundry partner for the development of that particular product and will continue to [****] in [****] to assist FoundryCo in [****] its [****] such that FoundryCo will be more likely to [****] for future AMD [****].
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
As described in Section 5 of this Agreement, AMD will provide to FoundryCo, on a monthly basis, a rolling [****] month wafer forecast for MPU Products, a rolling [****] month wafer forecast for GPU Products, and a rolling [****] month forecast for Embedded Products.
For those Products other than MPU Products for which FoundryCo has received, and agreed to, purchase orders from AMD in accordance with Section 5.5, FoundryCo agrees to provide adequate capacity to produce such Products. In addition, FoundryCo agrees to allocate capacity to AMD as described in Section 2.2 of this Agreement.
For Embedded Products, so long as AMD gives FoundryCo commercially viable volume, FoundryCo agrees to maintain the process and equipment set required to manufacture these products for a period of [****] years, or if earlier, until the termination or expiration of this Agreement. The [****] year duration is measured from the qualification date of each specific Embedded Product and any extensions to the [****] year duration will be negotiated in good faith between AMD and FoundryCo.
For GPU Products, the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand will be calculated on a monthly basis along with the Forecasted Total GPU Wafer Demand. The Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will then be reviewed monthly as part of the Partnership Committee meeting as well as reviewed quarterly as part of the Quarterly Business Review. The Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will be calculated based on the [****] fiscal months following and including the month that the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage is shared with FoundryCo.
Also for GPU Products, the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafers Shipped will be calculated on a quarterly basis, along with the Actual Quarterly Total GPU Wafer Demand. The Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will then be reviewed with FoundryCo as part of the Quarterly Business Review. The Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage will be calculated based on the most recent fiscal quarter prior to the date that the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage is shared with FoundryCo.
FoundryCo and AMD jointly agree that if, at any time, either the Forecasted GPU Wafer Demand Percentage or the Actual Quarterly GPU Wafer Demand Percentage falls below the designated levels as described in Section 2.1(c) of this Agreement that both companies will use commercially reasonable efforts to restore the percentage levels to their agreed upon values.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
The technical information that AMD may request from FoundryCo may include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
IN GENERAL
Wafers that sort to less than the RMA Threshold may not be scrapped without providing AMD with prior written notice and shall be subject to the procedures set forth in Exhibit F. FoundryCo must, at AMD's option, either credit the amounts paid for the rejected Wafers or replace the defective Wafers as set forth in this Exhibit E or Exhibit F, as applicable.
FoundryCo shall bear all packing, transportation, insurance and other costs incurred in connection with the return and replacement of defective Products. For MPU Products, in no event may FoundryCo charge AMD for replacement Wafers pursuant to this Exhibit E.
For all Wafers whose Yields fall below the RMA Threshold, FoundryCo will provide a credit or will deliver additional Wafers for the affected Products to make up for the shortfall of good Die in a manner to be determined by the Partnership Committee.
EPIDEMIC FAILURE
If an Epidemic Failure occurs, or if FoundryCo or AMD believes it may be necessary to conduct a Recall, the parties will work together to promptly diagnose the problem resulting in an Epidemic Failure or requiring the Recall and establish a corrective action plan to fix the problem with the affected Products and to implement such plan immediately upon the parties' agreement regarding the corrective action plan. If the parties cannot promptly agree upon a corrective action plan, the corrective action plan will be submitted to the Partnership Committee for resolution, or if the Partnership Committee cannot resolve the issue promptly, the parties will escalate the issue for resolution as set forth in Section 3.2 of this Agreement.
In the event of any Recall required due to (i) a manufacturing error, (ii) a breach of this Agreement by FoundryCo, or (iii) negligence or willful misconduct by FoundryCo, FoundryCo shall, subject to the terms of this Agreement: (a) replace the affected Products; or credit amounts previously paid by AMD for the affected Products against future payment obligations of AMD; and (b) reimburse (or at the election of AMD, credit) AMD for the actual costs and expenses incurred by AMD in respect of such recalled Products. Any Recall required because of a negligent act or omission in the additional manufacturing or testing, handling, storage, marketing, promotion, sale or distribution of Products, or as a result of AMD's designs or Specifications, or other breach of this Agreement by AMD shall be at AMD's sole expense.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
Product scrapping occurs when the manufacturing of a Product is discontinued before the Product has completed all of its processing steps in the facility.
Product scrapping can be requested by FoundryCo only if the manufacturing process has fallen out of Specification and the delivered Products are expected to not meet the desired performance range or Yield. In this occurrence, the Partnership Committee will review the factory performance excursion and AMD will decide if the Product should be scrapped. If the decision is for such Product to be scrapped, at AMD's request, FoundryCo shall replace the affected Products or credit amounts previously paid by AMD for the affected Products against future payment obligations of AMD. In the event that AMD elects to run Products that are known to be out of Specification through the complete fabrication process, these Products will be taken from FoundryCo "AS IS", without any warranty of any kind, and there will be no RMA or profit-sharing variances performed on the purchase order value of those scrapped Products with FoundryCo.
In addition, AMD can request Product scrapping on a case-by-case basis at AMD's discretion. There is no limit to the number of Products that AMD can request to be scrapped. In the event that AMD requests Products to be scrapped, the Products will immediately be put on-hold at FoundryCo and an assessment will be made of where in the process the Products to be scrapped are located. The location in the process is defined by the last numerical masking step that the Products to be scrapped have been subjected to. For instance, if FoundryCo is running a process with 50 masking steps, and AMD requests a lot of Products to be scrapped, and those Products have been determined to have passed masking step 36 but have not yet passed masking step 37, the location in the process is defined as masking step 36.
In the event that AMD requests FoundryCo to scrap Products, AMD will render partial payment for the scrapped Products to FoundryCo relative to where in the process those scrapped Products are located. Using the example above, if a Product is requested by AMD to be scrapped, and the Product is determined to be at masking step 35 out of total of 50 masking steps in the technology, the Raw Wafer Cost was $200, and the Wafer Price of the Product was $1000, the scrap cost is calculated as
[Wafer Price  Raw Wafer Cost] x [percentage of total mask levels fabricated] + Raw Wafer Cost, which would be calculated as ($1000  $200) x (35/50) + $200 which equals $760.
It is AMD's decision whether the scrap cost is rendered to FoundryCo as an adjustment of the original purchase order pricing or through a credit note to FoundryCo, or though some other means.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
Process Qualification Requirements will be reviewed on a Product-by-Product basis. In the situation where FoundryCo is making a technology offering that is not yet Qualified (for instance, in the early stages of the development of a new technology node), the parties will discuss and agree upon Specifications, the process technology to be employed, and the allowable variations in each of the following evaluation areas during the development and production phases of that technology or a specific Product.
The areas of evaluation will include at least the following:
1. . The die pricing is calculated from the Wafer Pricing, gross die per (GDPW), and Yield.
Die pricing
2. . AMD and FoundryCo will agree on a consistent manner in which Target Yield predictions will be made and may also monitor other parameters (such as defect densities) that are used in the calculation of Yield.
Yields
3.
Alignment with 3
rd
party assembly houses
. The manufacturing process performed by FoundryCo will adhere to the applicable sections of the Specifications that address AMD's need to take the Wafers manufactured by FoundryCo through the die assembly process within industry acceptable quality levels.
4. . For each process, FoundryCo must provide the ability for AMD to continuously monitor the position of Wafer orders as they progress through the FoundryCo manufacturing processes. It is expected that, starting in [****], this ability will be rendered from FoundryCo to AMD through a secure internet portal. Until the internet portal is available, FoundryCo will provide Wafer monitoring reports consistent with Exhibit D at a frequency to be agreed upon by the parties.
Wafer-in-process Monitoring
5. . AMD will perform product life tests on Products delivered from FoundryCo and will run tests including but not limited to short-term life, long-term life, and HAST (Highly Accelerated Stress Tests). The successful completion of these product life tests will be a gating item for the release of the Product to volume production at FoundryCo.
Product Life Test Procedures
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.
Upon request from AMD, FoundryCo shall provide mask manufacturing services to AMD, including mask data prep, at [****]. As of the Effective Date, FoundryCo shall provide mask data prep services to AMD utilizing hardware and software owned or leased by AMD. The parties agree to secure alternative hardware and software going forward. AMD acknowledges that for each new technology, mask manufacturing research and development and mask data prep may require AMD-specific [****] that will be deemed to be AMD-Specific [****] pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Any additional mask sets required specifically (a) for FoundryCo in connection with its technology learning, (b) for process changes introduced by FoundryCo, (c) for replacements by FoundryCo to account for normal wear and tear or (d) to enable FoundryCo to manufacture a particular Product at more than one FoundryCo location, will be at FoundryCo's expense. AMD acknowledges that for the purpose of MPU Product pricing, mask costs may become part of the AMD MPU Specific [****].
Any new masks required by (a) design or Specification changes, (b) design learning desired by AMD, (c) process changes requested by AMD or (d) second sourcing requested by AMD or its customers will be paid by AMD at [****].
AMD and FoundryCo shall mutually agree on mask suppliers for the purpose of meeting all the required technical criteria at reasonable cost and fulfilling the [****] obligations in the Advanced Mask Technology Center. The parties acknowledge that for initial designs at each new technology node or at each process within a technology node, AMD may request, and FoundryCo may reasonably consider, early adopter incentives that may include discounted engineering, prototyping or production mask sets to AMD.
 
[****] = Certain confidential information contained in this document, marked by brackets, has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the omitted portions.


