FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20090930122613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Craig A. Conway as a director effective September 27, 2009. Mr. Conway is expected to be appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board in October 2009.
Mr. Conway will receive similar benefits the Company provides to non-employee independent directors, which are described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2009. On September 27, 2009, Mr. Conway was granted 50,000 restricted stock units, which will vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the date of grant over three years.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Conway's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
Brenda Rarick
AMD Public Relations
(512) 602-8475
brenda.rarick@amd.com
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
(408) 749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
AMD (NYSE: AMD) announced today that Craig Conway, 54, has been appointed to the company's board of directors. Conway has more than 30 years of technology industry experience and leadership.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Sept. 28, 2009 
"Craig will be an asset to our board as he brings great strategic vision and a solid track record in positioning companies for success," said , chairman, AMD Board of Directors.
Bruce Claflin
"Craig is a respected and proven leader who has guided companies for growth and leadership in some of the world's most competitive technology markets. We look forward to his participation on the board," said , president and chief executive officer of AMD.
Dirk Meyer
Conway has successfully led several technology companies, most recently serving as president and CEO of PeopleSoft, Inc. from 1999 to 2004. While at PeopleSoft, the company grew into the world's second largest provider of enterprise business application software. Conway has also served as president and CEO of TGV Software and One Touch Systems. Previously, he held executive management positions at a variety of leading technology companies including executive vice president at Oracle Corporation.
Conway is a graduate of the State University of New York at Brockport, where he received a bachelor of science degree in computer science and mathematics.
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is an innovative technology company dedicated to collaborating with customers and technology partners to ignite the next generation of computing and graphics solutions at work, home and play. For more information, visit http://.
www.amd.com


