FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20100715164126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On July 15, 2010, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended June 26, 2010 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company deconsolidated GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. ("GF") results of operations and began accounting for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP earnings per share ("EPS"), non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical period operating results and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
For the second fiscal quarter and the six month period ended June 27, 2009, the Company has provided non-GAAP statement of operations financial measures for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. on a stand-alone basis (historically referred to as "AMD Product Company") by excluding from the Company's consolidated results of operations certain GF/Foundry segment related items, which for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 and the six month period then ended consisted of Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations consisting of revenues, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. The Company has also provided certain balance sheet line items that exclude the Foundry segment. The Company is providing these non-GAAP financial measures because the Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical period operating results and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the first and second fiscal quarters of 2010, the Company excluded the equity in net income (loss) of investee, and to derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company further excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF and the deconsolidation gain based on the fair value assessment of its investment in GF. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for the first and second fiscal quarters of 2010, the Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company also excluded certain restructuring reversals, investment gains, and the gain on the repurchase of the Company's debt.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the net loss from the Foundry segment and the Intersegment Eliminations referenced above, the impact of net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest and the Class B preferred accretion. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company further excluded the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, certain restructuring charges, and the gain recognized by the Company from the repurchase of debt.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and certain restructuring reversals. To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF and the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, amortization of acquired intangible assets, certain restructuring charges and the operating loss from Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 and the gross margin from the Company's Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
In the first fiscal quarter of 2010, in conjunction with the deconsolidation of the accounts of GF, the Company began accounting for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. The equity in net income (loss) of investee is primarily comprised of the Company's proportionate share of GF's losses for the period based on the Company's ownership percentage of GF's Class A Preferred stock, the Company's portion of the non-cash accretion on GF's Class B Preferred stock, the elimination of intercompany profit, reflecting the mark-up on inventory that remains on the Company's balance sheet at the end of the period, the amortization of basis differences identified from the purchase price allocation process based on the fair value of GF upon deconsolidation, and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of the Company's ownership interest as a result of the capital infusion into GF by ATIC. The Company excluded this item from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) in the first and second fiscal quarters of 2010 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF.
Equity in net income (loss) of investee:
The deconsolidation of GF's results of operations from the Company's results of operations resulted in incremental gross margin benefit in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 when compared to AMD Product Company in prior periods. This is partially attributable to the elimination of the mark-up charged by GF from the value of inventory as of the beginning of the first fiscal quarter of 2010. In addition, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company updated its inventory standard costs process with respect to inventory purchased from GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods. The impact of this item for the second fiscal quarter of 2010 was not material.
Gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF:
Effective as of December 27, 2009, the Company deconsolidated the results of operations of GF and began to account for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Under the accounting guidelines pertaining to deconsolidation, the Company's opening investment in GF is required to be recorded at fair value as of the date of deconsolidation. The difference between this initial fair value of the investment in GF and the net carrying book value is recognized as a gain or loss in earnings. During the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company completed a valuation analysis to determine the initial fair value of its investment in GF. Based on this analysis, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company recognized a non-cash, one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of approximately $325 million. The Company excluded this gain from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Deconsolidation gain on the fair value assessment of investment in GF:
: The Company's former Foundry segment included the operating results attributable to the front end wafer manufacturing operations and related activities, which included the operating results of GF from March 2, 2009 through December 26, 2009. Intersegment Eliminations consisted of eliminations of revenues, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between the AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. The Company excluded the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter and the six month period ended June 27, 2009 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations and to better understand the Company's financial results absent the requirement to consolidate the financial results of GF during fiscal 2009.
Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations
: These two items relate to GF, the operating results of which are included in the Company's Foundry segment from March 2, 2009 through December 26, 2009. The net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest represents the allocation of the operating results to the noncontrolling partner of GF, whereas the Class B preferred accretion represents the guaranteed rate of return that the noncontrolling partner earns on its ownership of GF Class B preferred stock. The Company excluded these items from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) for the second fiscal quarter and the six month period ended June 27, 2009 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF during fiscal 2009.
Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest and Class B preferred accretion
: In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company recorded an incremental write-down of inventory of $227 million due to a weak economic outlook. In the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company sold a portion of this inventory. The Company excluded this activity from the Company's GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 because the Company believes that the exclusion of this activity enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These expenses included the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for the periods presented enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: Restructuring charges are attributable to a restructuring plan implemented by the Company during fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 to reduce its breakeven point. These charges represent primarily severance and costs related to the continuation of certain employee benefits, contract or program termination costs, asset impairments and exit costs for facility site consolidations and closures. Restructuring reversals represent the amount that the Company no longer expects to pay for its estimated restructuring accrual based on its assessment of the latest available facts and circumstances. The Company excluded the effect of the restructuring reversals from the Company's second fiscal quarter of 2010 GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss), and the effect of restructuring charges from the Company's second fiscal quarter of 2009 GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges and reversals
In the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company sold a portion of its marketable securities and recognized a gain on the sale. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net income (loss) because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Investment gain:
: This represents the net gain or loss that the Company recognized during the applicable period from its partial repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness. During the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $206 million face value of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 resulting in a gain of $0.1 million. During the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $15 million face value of its 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 resulting in a $6 million gain. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain (loss) on debt repurchase, net
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company included adjustment for certain restructuring reversals. For the second fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company included adjustments for the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations operating loss and certain restructuring charges, and net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest and Class B preferred accretion.
The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sell to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted Free Cash Flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the second quarter of 2010 of $1.65 billion, a net loss of $43 million, or $0.06 per share, and operating income of $125 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $83 million, or $0.11 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $138 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 15, 2010 
AMD
"Robust demand for our latest mobile platforms and solid execution drove record second quarter revenue and a healthy gross margin," said Dirk Meyer, AMD President and CEO. "Our unmatched combination of microprocessor and graphics capabilities resulted in customers launching a record number of new mobile and desktop platforms. We added Sony as a microprocessor customer and continue to see our existing customers expand their AMD-based platform offerings."
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to be up seasonally for the third quarter of 2010.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at AMD. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to AMD Common Stockholders to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
1,3
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income (Loss)
1,3
 
 
About AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NYSE: AMD) is an innovative technology company dedicated to collaborating with customers and technology partners to ignite the next generation of computing and graphics solutions at work, home and play. For more information, visit .
AMD
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its third quarter 2010 revenue and demand for the Company's products, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the third quarter of 2010 and beyond; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix
 
that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development and capacity that is required to remain competitive; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2010.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, and Radeon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
1
In this press release, in addition to GAAP financial results, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial measures, including for non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments as presented in the tables in this press release. The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance. These items are defined in the footnotes to the selected corporate data tables provided at the end of this press release. The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods operating results and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting period on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
2
Starting in the first quarter of 2010 the Company accounted for its investment in GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) under the equity method of accounting.
3
Refer to corresponding tables at the end of this press release for additional AMD data.
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
AMD NON-GAAP AND RECONCILIATIONS TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(1)
 
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount and percentages)
 
 
See footnotes on the next page
(6) AMD reconciliation of GAAP operating income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA*
 
(7) Reconciliation of select balance sheet items
 
(8) Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation***
 
 


