FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20100520142949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Base Salary and Bonus Target
On May 14, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") approved an increase to the base salary of Mr. Derrick Meyer, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, from $900,000 to $950,000 and Mr. Emilio Ghilardi, the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer, from $580,000 to $597,000, effective as of July 1, 2010. Further, the Compensation Committee approved a decrease of the Annual Incentive Plan target for Mr. Robert Rivet, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operations and Administrative Officer, from 175% to 150% of his base salary for the second half of fiscal year 2010.
Equity Awards
The Compensation Committee also approved grants of equity awards to the Company's named executive officers listed below, to be granted pursuant to the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan"). The following table sets forth the equity awards to such executive officers.
 
 
Forms of Award Agreements
The equity awards made pursuant to the 2004 Plan to the Company's employees at the Senior Vice President level and above will be granted through the use of revised forms of award agreements, which set forth terms applicable to such specific awards. On May 14, 2010, the Compensation Committee approved the inclusion of a "clawback" provision in the Company's revised forms of stock option agreements and restricted stock unit agreements to be entered into with employees at the Senior Vice President level and above. Copies of these forms of agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Advanced Micro Devices, a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), an option to purchase the number of Shares (as defined in the Plan) set forth below (the ""). This Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice and the Stock Option Agreement.
Company
Plan
Participant
Option
Exhibit A
Stock Option Agreement
 
      Incentive Stock Option                  Non-Qualified Stock Option
Type of Option:            
         [To be specified in individual agreements]
Vesting Schedule:
By his or her signature, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Stock Option Agreement and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Stock Option Agreement, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Stock Option Agreement.
 
Pursuant to the Stock Option Grant Notice (the "") to which this Stock Option Agreement (this "") is attached together with the Confirmation of Grant (the "Confirmation"), Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to Participant an option under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""), to purchase the number of Shares (as defined in the Plan) indicated in the Grant Notice.
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Plan
1.1 . Wherever the following terms are used in this Agreement they shall have the meanings specified below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Plan and the Grant Notice.
Defined Terms
(a) "" shall mean the Board or any of its delegates, including committees, administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" shall mean the time when the engagement of Participant as a Consultant to the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated for any reason, with or without cause, including, but not by way of limitation, by resignation, discharge, death, Disability or retirement, but excluding: (a) terminations where there is a simultaneous employment or continuing employment of Participant by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (b) terminations where there is a simultaneous re-establishment of a consulting relationship or continuing consulting relationship between Participant and the Company or any Subsidiary. The Administrator, in its absolute discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Consultancy, including, but not by way of limitation, the question of whether a particular leave of absence constitutes a Termination of Consultancy. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company or any Subsidiary has an absolute and unrestricted right to terminate a Consultant's service at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in writing.
Termination of Consultancy
(c) "" shall mean the time when Participant, if he or she is or becomes an Independent Director, ceases to be a Director for any reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, failure to be elected, death or retirement. The Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Directorship with respect to Independent Directors.
Termination of Directorship
(d) "" shall mean the time when the employee-employer relationship between Participant and the Company or any Subsidiary is terminated for any reason, with or without cause, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability or retirement; but excluding: (a) terminations where there is a simultaneous reemployment or continuing employment of Participant by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (b) terminations where there is a simultaneous establishment of a consulting relationship or continuing consulting relationship between Participant and the Company or any Subsidiary. The Administrator, in its absolute discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Employment, including, but not by way of limitation, the question of whether a particular leave of
Termination of Employment
absence constitutes a Termination of Employment; provided, however, that, if this Option is an Incentive Stock Option, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its discretion, a leave of absence, change in status from an employee to an independent contractor or other change in the employee-employer relationship shall constitute a Termination of Employment if, and to the extent that, such leave of absence, change in status or other change interrupts employment for the purposes of Section 422(a)(2) of the Code and the then applicable regulations and revenue rulings under said Section.
(e) "" shall mean Participant's Termination of Consultancy, Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment, as applicable.
Termination of Services
1.2 . The Option is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan which are incorporated herein by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between the Plan and this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall control.
Incorporation of Terms of Plan
2.1 . In consideration of Participant's past and/or continued employment with or service to the Company or a Subsidiary and for other good and valuable consideration, effective as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice (the ""), the Company grants to Participant the Option to purchase any part or all of an aggregate of the number of Shares set forth in the Grant Notice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement. Unless designated as a Non-Qualified Stock Option in the Grant Notice, the Option shall be an Incentive Stock Option to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Grant of Option
Grant Date
2.2 . The exercise price of the shares of Stock subject to the Option shall be as set forth in the Grant Notice, without commission or other charge; , , that the price per Share subject to the Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and Participant owns (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any "subsidiary corporation" of the Company or any "parent corporation" of the Company (each within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code), the price per Share subject to the Option shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
provided
however
2.3 . In consideration of the grant of the Option by the Company, Participant agrees to render faithful and efficient services to the Company or any Subsidiary. Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which rights are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge or terminate the services of Participant at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in a written agreement between the Company or a Subsidiary and Participant.
Consideration to the Company
3.1 .
Commencement of Exercisability
(a) Subject to Sections 3.2, 3.3, 5.10 and 5.15 hereof, the Option shall become vested and exercisable in such amounts and at such times as are set forth in the Grant Notice.
(b) No portion of the Option which has not become vested and exercisable at the date of Participant's Termination of Services shall thereafter become vested and exercisable, except as may be otherwise provided by the Administrator or as set forth in a written agreement between the Company and Participant; provided, however, that (i) if Participant is on unpaid leave of absence, Participant has 15 years or more of service with the Company and Participant's Termination of Service is due to Participant's death or Disability, then the Option shall become immediately vested and exercisable as to the number of Shares that would have otherwise become vested in the calendar year in which such leave of service commenced and (ii) if Participant is not on unpaid leave of absence, Participant has 15 years or more of service with the Company and Participant's Termination of Service is due to Participant's death or Disability, then the Option shall become immediately vested and exercisable as to the number of Shares that would have otherwise become vested in the calendar year of such termination.
3.2 . The installments provided for in the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice are cumulative. Each such installment which becomes vested and exercisable pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice shall remain vested and exercisable until it becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3 hereof.
Duration of Exercisability
3.3 . The Option may not be exercised to any extent by anyone after the first to occur of the following events:
Expiration of Option
(a) The Expiration Date set forth in the Grant Notice, which shall in no event be more than seven years from the Grant Date;
(b) If this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and Participant owned (within the meaning of Section 424(d) of the Code), at the time the Option was granted, more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any "subsidiary corporation" of the Company or any "parent corporation" of the Company (each within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code), the expiration of five years from the Grant Date;
(c) The expiration of three months from the date of Participant's Termination of Services, unless such termination occurs by reason of Participant's death or Disability; provided, however, that if Participant is eligible for an extended period to exercise pursuant to the table below, the expiration period provided in this Section 3.3(c) shall be extended to such applicable total period as is shown pursuant to the table below;
If Participant is Not a VP or Company Officer
 
 
(d) The expiration of 12 months from the date of Participant's Termination of Services by reason of Participant's death or Disability; provided, however, that if Participant is eligible for an extended period to exercise pursuant to the table below, the expiration period provided in this Section 3.3(d) shall be extended to such applicable total period as is shown pursuant to the table below.
If Participant is Not a VP or Company Officer
 
 
3.4 . Participant acknowledges that, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time the Option is granted) of all Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options, including the Option (if applicable), are exercisable for the first time by Participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, the Option and such other options shall be Non-Qualified Stock Options to the extent necessary to comply with the limitations imposed by Section 422(d) of the Code. Participant further acknowledges that the rule set forth in the preceding sentence shall be applied by taking the Option and other "incentive stock options" into account in the order in which they were granted, as determined under Section 422(d) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. Participant acknowledges that an Incentive Stock Option exercised more than three months after Participant's Termination of Employment, other than by reason of death or Disability, will be taxed as a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
Special Tax Consequences
4.1 . During the lifetime of Participant, only Participant may exercise the Option or any portion thereof. After the death of Participant, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3 hereof, be exercised by Participant's personal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Person Eligible to Exercise
4.2 . Any exercisable portion of the Option or the entire Option, if then wholly exercisable, may be exercised in whole or in part at any time prior to the time when the Option or portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3 hereof.
Partial Exercise
4.3 . The Option, or any exercisable portion thereof, may be exercised solely by delivery to the Secretary of the Company (or any third party administrator or other person or entity designated by the Company), during regular business hours, of all of the following prior to the time when the Option or such portion thereof becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3 hereof:
Manner of Exercise
(a) An exercise notice in a form specified by the Administrator, stating that the Option or portion thereof is thereby exercised, such notice complying with all applicable rules established by the Administrator;
(b) The receipt by the Company of full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option or portion thereof is exercised, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which shall be made by deduction from other compensation payable to Participant or in such other form of consideration permitted under Section 4.4 hereof that is acceptable to the Company;
(c) Any other written representations as may be required in the Administrator's reasonable discretion to evidence compliance with the Securities Act or any other applicable law, rule or regulation; and
(d) In the event the Option or portion thereof shall be exercised pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof by any person or persons other than Participant, appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to specify all conditions of the manner of exercise, which conditions may vary by country and which may be subject to change from time to time.
4.4 . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising the Option, including the method of payment. Such consideration, to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, may consist of:
Method of Payment
(a) Check;
(b) Other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, have been owned by the Participant for such period of time as may be required by the Administrator in order to avoid adverse accounting consequences, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
(c) Broker-assisted cashless exercise;
(d) Any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or
(e) Such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.
4.5 . The Shares deliverable upon the exercise of the Option, or any portion thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares of Stock or issued shares of Stock which have then been reacquired by the Company. Such shares of Stock shall be fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any Shares purchased upon the exercise of the Option or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:
Conditions to Issuance of Stock Certificates
(a) The admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such Stock is then listed;
(b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable;
(c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;
(d) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such Shares, including payment of any applicable withholding tax, which may be in one or more of the forms of consideration permitted under Section 4.4 hereof; and
(e) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Administrator may from time to time establish for reasons of administrative convenience.
4.6 . The holder of the Option shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to dividends, in respect of any Shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part of the Option unless and until such Shares shall have been issued by the Company and held of record by such holder (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Shares are issued, except as provided in Section 15(a) of the Plan.
Rights as Stockholder
5.1 . The Administrator shall have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be final and binding upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee or the Board shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan, this Agreement or the Option.
Administration
5.2 . The Option may only be exercised for whole Shares.
Whole Shares
5.3 . Subject to Section 4.1 hereof, the Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, unless and until the Shares underlying the Option have been issued, and all restrictions applicable to such Shares have lapsed. Neither the Option nor any interest or right therein shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of Participant or his or her successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect, except to the extent that such disposition is permitted by the preceding sentence.
Option Not Transferable
5.4 . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of the Option contained herein, this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
5.5 . Participant acknowledges that the Option is subject to adjustment, modification and termination in certain events as provided in this Agreement and Section 15 of the Plan.
Adjustments
5.6 . Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of the Secretary of the Company at the Company's principal office, and any notice to be given to Participant shall be addressed to Participant at Participant's last address reflected on the Company's records. By a notice given pursuant to this Section 5.6, either party may hereafter designate a different address for notices to be given to that party. Any notice which is required to be given to Participant shall, if Participant is then deceased, be given to the person entitled to exercise his or her Option pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof by written notice under this Section 5.6. Any notice shall be deemed duly given when sent via email or when sent by certified mail (return receipt requested) and deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.
Notices
5.7 . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Titles
5.8 . The laws of the State of Delaware shall govern the interpretation, validity, administration, enforcement and performance of the terms of this Agreement regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
5.9 . Participant acknowledges that the Plan and this Agreement are intended to conform to the extent necessary with all provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and any and all regulations and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder, and state securities laws and regulations. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall be administered, and the Option is granted and may be exercised, only in such a manner as to conform to such laws, rules and regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules and regulations.
Conformity to Securities Laws
5.10 . To the extent permitted by the Plan, this Agreement may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or terminated at any time or from time to time by the Committee or the Board; that, except as may otherwise be provided by the Plan, no amendment, modification, suspension or termination of this Agreement shall adversely affect the Option in any material way without the prior written consent of Participant.
Amendments, Suspension and Termination
provided,
5.11 . The Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement to single or multiple assignees, and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer herein set forth in Section 5.3 hereof, this Agreement shall be binding upon Participant and his or her heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
5.12 . If this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, Participant shall give prompt notice to the Company of any disposition or other transfer of any shares of Stock acquired under this Agreement if such disposition or transfer is made (a) within two years from the Grant Date with respect to such shares of Stock or (b) within one year after the transfer of such shares of Stock to Participant. Such notice shall specify the date of such disposition or other transfer and the amount realized, in cash, other property, assumption of indebtedness or other consideration, by Participant in such disposition or other transfer.
Notification of Disposition
5.13 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, if Participant is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Plan, the Option and this Agreement shall be subject to any additional limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the application of such exemptive rule. To the extent permitted by applicable law, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such applicable exemptive rule.
Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons
5.14 . The Plan, the Grant Notice, the Confirmation and this Agreement (including all Exhibits thereto) constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
5.15 . This Option is not intended to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (together with any Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the date hereof, ""). However, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Grant Notice or this Agreement, if at any time the Administrator determines that the Option (or any portion thereof) may be subject to Section 409A, the Administrator shall have the right in its sole discretion (without any obligation to do so or to indemnify Participant or any other person for failure to do so) to adopt such amendments to the Plan, the Grant Notice or this Agreement, or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, as the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate either for the Option to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
Section 409A
Section 409A
5.16 . Participation in the Plan confers no rights or interests other than as herein provided. This Agreement creates only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company as to amounts payable and shall not be construed as creating a trust. Neither the Plan nor any underlying program, in and of itself, has any assets. Participant shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company with respect to amounts credited and benefits payable, if any, with respect to the Option, and rights no greater than the right to receive the Stock as a general unsecured creditor with respect to options, as and when exercised pursuant to the terms hereof.
Limitation on Participant's Rights
5.17 . In the event the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the Administrator will review all equity-based compensation (including the Option) awarded to Participants at the Senior Vice President level and above. If the Administrator (in its sole discretion) determines that any such Participant was directly involved with fraud, misconduct and/or gross negligence that contributed to or resulted in such accounting restatement, the Administrator may, to the extent permitted by governing law and as appropriate under the circumstances, recover for the benefit of the Company all or a portion of the equity-based compensation awarded to such Participant, including (without limitation) by cancelation, forfeiture, repayment and/or disgorgement of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company; , the Administrator will have the authority to recover any equity-based compensation awarded more than 18 months prior to the date of the first public issuance or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurs) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement. In determining whether to seek recovery, the Administrator shall take into account such considerations as it deems appropriate, including governing law and whether the assertion of a recovery claim may prejudice the interests of the Company in any related proceeding or investigation.
Recovery in the Event of a Financial Restatement
provided, however

Exhibit 10.2
Advanced Micro Devices, a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), an option to purchase the number of Shares (as defined in the Plan) set forth below (the ""). This Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein, together with the Stock Option Award attached hereto as (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice and the Stock Option Agreement.
Company
Plan
Participant
Option
Exhibit A
Stock Option Agreement
 
      Incentive Stock Option                  Non-Qualified Stock Option
Type of Option:            
         [To be specified in individual agreements]
Vesting Schedule:
By his or her signature, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Stock Option Agreement and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Stock Option Agreement, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement, and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan, this Grant Notice, or the Stock Option Agreement.
 
The following Terms and Conditions, together with the accompanying Confirmation of Grant of Stock Options (the ""), the Stock Option Grant Notice (the "") and any country-specific terms and conditions contained in the Appendix (as described in Section 21, below), comprise your agreement (the "") with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") regarding the grant of Stock Options ("") to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock (the ""), as set forth in the Grant Notice, at the exercise price per share set forth in the Grant Notice (the ""), awarded under the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""). Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the Plan.
Confirmation
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Options
Shares
Exercise Price
Plan
1. The Options will vest on the date(s) shown on the Grant Notice provided that you continue to be an active Service Provider through each vesting date.
.
Vesting of Options
2.
.
Exercise of Options
(a) . This Option is exercisable during its term in accordance with the vesting schedule set out in the Grant Notice and the applicable provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.
Right to Exercise
(b) . Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, the Option shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you, and after your death only by your legal representative. The Options may only be exercised by the delivery to the Company of a properly completed written notice, in form specified by the Administrator or its designee, which notice shall specify the number of Shares to be purchased and the aggregate Exercise Price for such shares, together with payment in full of such aggregate Exercise Price and all applicable Tax-Related Items (as defined in Section 7). Payment shall be made in a manner permitted in Section 3 below or as authorized by the Administrator pursuant to the Plan and/or as specified in the Appendix. The Options may not be exercised unless you agree to be bound by such documents as the Administrator may reasonably require, including all Award Documentation.
Method of Exercise
The Administrator may deny any exercise permitted hereunder if the Administrator determines, in its discretion, that such exercise could result in a violation of U.S. federal, state or foreign securities laws.
3. Payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, unless provided otherwise in the Appendix:
.
Method of Payment
(a) cash; or
(b) check; or
(c) consideration received by the Company under a cashless exercise program implemented by the Company in connection with the Plan.
4. The Options may not be pledged, assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The terms of the Plan and the Agreement shall be binding upon your executors, administrators, heirs, successors and assigns.
.
Nontransferability of Options
5. This Option may be exercised only within the term set out in the Grant Notice, and may be exercised during such term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of the Agreement.
.
Term of Option
6.
.
Termination as a Service Provider
(a) . If your status as an active Service Provider terminates for any reason, other than death or Disability or for Misconduct, and you have not been serving as a vice president or AMD officer for at least ninety (90) days (or not at all), vested Options may be exercised at any time before the expiration date set forth in the Grant Notice or the expiration of three months after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter period, but
Termination Generally
only to the extent you were entitled to exercise the Options at the date of termination, as described in Sections 1 and 2 and in the Grant Notice. If you have been serving as a vice-president or AMD officer for at least ninety (90) days and your status as an active Service Provider terminates for any reason other than death or Disability or for Misconduct, vested Options may be exercised at any time before the expiration date set forth in the Grant Notice or the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only to the extent you were entitled to exercise the Options at the date of termination, as described in Sections 1 and 2 and in the Grant Notice.
You may have a longer period to exercise Options under the circumstances described below:
 
 
 
 
If you terminate your status as an active Service Provider to work for a competitor of the Company, the post-termination exercise period extensions described in Sections 6(a)(i)  (iv) will not apply, and you will have three months to exercise your vested Options, unless you have been serving as a vice-president or AMD officer for at least ninety (90) days, in which case you will have twelve (12) months to exercise your vested Options. In no case shall the post-termination exercise periods extend beyond the term limit for the Options as set out in the Grant Notice.
(b) . If your status as an active Service Provider terminates due to your death or Disability (as defined in the Plan) and you were a Service Provider for at least fifteen (15) years, your Options will vest as follows:
Termination Due to Death or Disability
 
 
You (or your heirs, as applicable) shall generally have twelve (12) months from the date your status as a Service Provider is terminated due to death or Disability to exercise any vested Options. However, if you are aged fifty (50) or more and have at least fifteen (15) years of service but less than twenty (20) years of service when your status as a Service Provider is terminated due to death or Disability, you (or your heirs) shall have twenty-four (24) months from the date your status as a Service Provider is terminated to exercise any vested Options (provided that you do not go to work for a competitor of the Company, in which case you (or your heirs) shall have twelve (12) months from the date your status as a Service Provider is terminated to exercise any vested Options). If you are aged fifty (50) or more and have at least twenty (20) years of service when your status as a Service Provider is terminated due to death or Disability, you (or your heirs) shall have thirty-six (36) months from the date your status
as a Service Provider is terminated to exercise any vested Options (provided that you do not go to work for a competitor of the Company, in which case you (or your heirs) shall have twelve (12) months from the date your status as a Service Provider is terminated to exercise any vested Options). In no case shall the post-termination exercise periods extend beyond the term limit for the Options as set out in the Grant Notice.
(c) . If your status as an active Service Provider is terminated due to Misconduct (as defined in the Plan), the Company reserves the right to cancel all of your Options, whether vested or unvested.
Termination due to Misconduct
7. Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the "") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (""), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Options, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Options, the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Options, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the Options to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you have become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.
.
Responsibility for Taxes
Employer
Tax-Related Items
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you will pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
 
 
 
 
To avoid negative accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the exercise, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan.
Finally, you shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
8.
.
Other Terms and Conditions
(a) . This Agreement is further subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan. Only certain provisions of the Plan are described in these Terms and Conditions. As a condition to your receipt and exercise of the Options, you acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and the terms and provisions of the Plan.
The Plan
(b) . Until the Shares are issued upon exercise, you have no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Options.
Stockholder Rights
(c) . Nothing in the Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of your Employer, nor shall interfere with or restrict rights of your Employer, which are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge you at any time, with or without cause provided in compliance with applicable local laws.
Employment Relationship
(d) . If your employment is terminated by your Employer for any reason other than for Misconduct or, if applicable, by you as a result of a Constructive Termination, within one year after a Change of Control, then the Options shall become fully vested upon the date of termination.
Change of Control
(e) . If you wish to decline your Options, you must complete and file the Declination of Grant form with Corporate Compensation and Benefits by the deadline for such declination. Your declination is non-revocable, and you will not receive any other benefits or compensation as replacement for the declined Options.
Declination of Options
(f) . In the event the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the Administrator will review all equity-based compensation (including the Option) awarded to employees at the Senior Vice President level and above. If the Administrator (in its sole discretion) determines that any such Company employee was directly involved with fraud, misconduct and/or gross negligence that contributed to or resulted in such accounting restatement, the Administrator may, to the extent permitted by governing law and as appropriate under the circumstances, recover for the benefit of the Company all or a portion of the equity-based compensation awarded to you, including (without limitation) by cancelation, forfeiture, repayment and/or disgorgement of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company; , the Administrator will have the authority to recover any equity-based compensation awarded more than 18 months prior to the date of the first public issuance or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurs) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement. In determining whether to seek recovery, the Administrator shall take into account such considerations as it deems appropriate, including governing law and whether the assertion of a recovery claim may prejudice the interests of the Company in any related proceeding or investigation.
Recovery in the Event of a Financial Restatement
provided, however
9. In accepting the grant, you acknowledge that:
.
Nature of Grant
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;
(b) the grant of the Options is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Options, or benefits in lieu of Options, even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment relationship at any time;
(e) you are voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(f) the Options and the Shares subject to the Options are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or the Employer, and which is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any;
(g) the Options and the Shares subject to the Options are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(h) the Options and the Shares subject to the Options are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer, its Parent, or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;
(i) the Option grant and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;
(j) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(k) if the underlying Shares do not increase in value, the Options will have no value;
(l) if you exercise the Options and obtain Shares, the value of the Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price;
(m) in consideration of the grant of the Options, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Options resulting from termination of your employment with the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of applicable local laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim;
(n) in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to vest in the Options under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under applicable local laws (., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to applicable local laws); the Administrator shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of your Options; and
e.g
(o) the Options and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.
10. The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
.
No Advice Regarding Grant
11.
. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Options Award Documentation by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
You understand that Data will be transferred to a Companydesignated Plan broker, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Company, its Plan broker and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or
withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
12. The issuance and transfer of the Shares will be subject to and conditioned upon compliance by the Company and you with all applicable state, federal and foreign laws and regulations and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed or quoted at the time of such issuance or transfer.
.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
13. The Company may assign any of its rights under the Agreement. The Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer contained herein, the Agreement will be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
.
Successors and Assigns
14. The Administrator shall have the power to interpret the Plan and the Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any Shares subject to the Option have vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith shall be final and binding upon you, the Company and all other interested persons. The Administrator shall not be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or the Agreement.
.
Administrator Authority
15. The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within California, excluding that body of laws pertaining to conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or the Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of Santa Clara County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
.
Governing Law; Severability
If any provision of the Agreement is determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible and the other provisions will remain fully effective and enforceable.
16. The parties agree to execute further instruments and to take further actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of the Agreement.
.
Further Instruments
17. If you have received the Agreement or any other Award Documentation translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
.
Language
18. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.
.
Electronic Delivery
19. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Options and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with Applicable Laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
.
Imposition of Other Requirements
20. The captions and headings of the Agreement are included for ease of reference only and will be disregarded in interpreting or construing the Agreement. All references herein to Sections will refer to Sections of the Agreement.
.
Headings
21. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Award Documentation, the Options grant shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in an Appendix to the Terms and Conditions. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of the Agreement.
.
Appendix
22. The Plan, these Terms and Conditions, the Appendix, the Grant Notice and the Confirmation constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of the Agreement, and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between the parties with respect to the specific subject matter hereof.
.
Entire Agreement
This Appendix to the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located Outside the U.S. includes additional terms and conditions that govern the grant of Options in your country. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Appendix have the definitions ascribed to them in the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "") and/or the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located Outside the U.S. (as applicable).
Plan
This Appendix also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of December 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at vesting or exercise of the Options or the subsequent sale of the Shares or receipt of any dividends.
In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.
Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you.
ARGENTINA
Notifications
Neither the Options nor the issuance of Shares are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.
Securities Law Information.
Under current regulations adopted by the Argentine Central Bank (the "BCRA"), you may purchase and remit foreign currency with a value of up to US$2,000,000 per month out of Argentina for the purpose of acquiring foreign securities, including Shares under the Plan, without prior approval from the BCRA, provided you execute and submit an affidavit to the BCRA confirming you have not exceeded the US$2,000,000 threshold during the relevant month.
Exchange Control Information.
Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that you may have.
AUSTRALIA
Notifications
If you acquire Shares pursuant to the Options and you offer the Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, the offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.
Securities Law Information.
Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding A$10,000 and international fund transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will be required to file the report.
Exchange Control Information.
BELGIUM
There are no country specific provisions.
BRAZIL
Notifications
If you are a resident or domiciled in Brazil, you will be required to submit an annual declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000. Please note that the US$100,000 threshold may be changed annually.
Exchange Control Information.
CANADA
Notifications
The following provisions will apply if you are a resident of Quebec:
French Language Provision.
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
("Agreement"),
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la redaction en anglais de cette convention
ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procedures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  la prsente convention.
The following provision replaces Section 1 and Section 6(b) of the Terms and Conditions:
Termination of Service.
In the event of the termination of your status as Service Provider for any reason, except for death or Disability and whether or not in breach of local labor laws, all unvested Options shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Options will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date you receive notice of termination from your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively providing service, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable local laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing service for purposes of the Options.
The following provision supplements Section 11 of the Terms and Conditions:
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information.
You hereby authorize the Company and the Company's representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company, any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and the Administrator of the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors. You further authorize the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.
CHINA
Terms and Conditions
The following provision supplements Section 3 of the Terms and Conditions:
Method of Payment and Sale of Shares.
Due to local regulatory requirements, you understand that you will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, you understand that you must instruct the Plan broker to: (i) sell all of the Shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the Exercise Price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to you. You will not be permitted to hold Shares after exercise. Depending upon the development of laws and your status as a national of a country other than the People's Republic of China, the Company reserves the right to modify the methods of exercising the Options and in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercises, cashless sell-to-cover exercises or any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the Plan.
 You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the immediate sale of the Shares upon exercise of the Options to China. You further understand that, under Applicable Laws, such repatriation of your cash proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company, its Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate or the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of any Shares you acquire may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. You also understand that the Company will deliver the proceeds to you as soon as possible, but there may be delays in distributing the funds to you due to exchange control requirements in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company's discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular exchange conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.
Exchange Control Requirements.
FRANCE
Notifications
The Options are not intended to be French tax-qualified Awards.
Tax Information.
Terms and Conditions
By signing and returning this Agreement, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to the Plan which were provided to you in English language. You accept the terms of those documents accordingly.
French Language Provision.
French translation:
En signant et renvoyant ce Contrat vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs au Plan qui vous ont t communiqus en langue anglaise. Vous en acceptez les termes en connaissance de cause.
FINLAND
There are no country specific provisions.
GERMANY
Notifications
Cross-border payments in excess of 12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. If you use a German bank to transfer a cross-border payment in excess of 12,500 in connection with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan, the bank will make the report for you. In addition, you must report any receivables, payables, or debts in foreign currency exceeding an amount of 5,000,000 on a monthly basis.
Exchange Control Information.
HONG KONG
Terms and Conditions
Warning
: The Options and Shares issued at exercise do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to Service Providers of the Company, its Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental Award Documentation have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor has the Award Documentation been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Options are intended only for the personal use of each eligible Service Provider of the Employer, the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice.
The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Terms and Conditions:
Sale of Shares.
In the event your Options vest and are exercised within six months of the date of grant, you agree that you will not dispose of any Shares acquired prior to the six-month anniversary of the date of grant.
Notifications
The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance.
Nature of Scheme.
INDIA
Terms and Conditions
The following provision supplements Section 3 of the Terms and Conditions:
Method of Payment.
Due to regulatory requirements you understand that you may not pay the Exercise Price by a "sell-to-cover" exercise ( where enough Shares subject to the Options will be sold immediately upon exercise and the proceeds from the sale will be remitted to the Company to cover the Exercise Price for the purchased shares and any Tax-Related Items or fringe benefit tax withholding). The Company reserves the right to permit this method of payment depending upon the development of local law.
i.e.
By accepting the Options, you consent and agree to assume any and all liability for fringe benefit tax that may be payable by the Company and/or the Employer in connection with the Options at the discretion of the Company and/or the Employer. Further, by accepting the Options, you agree that the Company and/or the Employer may collect the fringe benefit tax from you by any of the means set forth in Section 7 of the Terms and Conditions, or any other reasonable method established by the Company. You also agree to execute any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, promptly upon request by the Company.
Fringe Benefit Tax Obligation.
Notifications
You understand that you must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan to India and convert the proceeds into local currency within 90 days of receipt. You will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ("FIRC") from the bank where you deposit the foreign currency. You should maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of fund in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Information.
IRELAND
Notifications
If you are a director, shadow director or secretary of the Company's Irish Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you must notify the Irish Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing within five business days of receiving or disposing of an interest in the Company (., Options, etc.), or within five business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This notification requirement also applies with respect to the interests of a spouse or children under the age of 18 (whose interests will be attributed to the director, shadow director or secretary).
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g
ITALY
Terms and Conditions
The following provision supplements Section 3 of the Terms and Conditions:
Method of Payment.
Due to local regulatory requirements, you understand that you will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, you understand that you must instruct the Plan broker to: (i) sell all of the Shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the Exercise Price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to you. You will not be permitted to hold Shares after exercise. Depending upon the development of laws and your status as a national of a country other than Italy, the Company reserves the right to modify the methods of exercising the Options and in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercises, cashless sell-to-cover exercises or any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the Plan.
The following provisions replace in its entirety Section 11 of the Terms and Conditions:
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information.
You understand that the Employer and/or the Company may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the "Data") for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You are aware that providing the Company with your Data is necessary for the performance of the Agreement and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.
The Controller of personal data processing is Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, California 94088, USA, and, pursuant to D.lgs 196/2003, its representative in Italy is: Advanced Micro Devices, Spa. Via Montefeltro, 420156 Milano, Italy. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any transfer required to a broker or other third party with whom Shares acquired pursuant to the vesting of the Options or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, the recipients that may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer such Data for the above mentioned purposes may be located in Italy or elsewhere, including outside of the European Union and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. The processing activity, including the transfer of your personal data abroad, outside of the European Union, as herein specified and pursuant to Applicable Laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary for the performance of contractual obligations related to the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that Data processing relating to the purposes above specified shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data are collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to D.lgs. 196/2003.
You understand that Data will be held only as long as is required by law or as necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that pursuant to art.7 of D.lgs 196/2003, you have the right, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, request the rectification of your Data and cease, for legitimate reasons, the Data processing. Furthermore, you are aware that your Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, the Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting a local representative available at the following address: Advanced Micro Devices, Spa. Via Montefeltro, 420156 Milan, Italy.
In accepting the Options, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Agreement and have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the following sections of the Terms and Conditions:
Plan Document Acknowledgment.
Section 1: Vesting of Options, Section 2: Exercise of Options; Section 6: Termination as a Service Provider; Section 7: Responsibility for Taxes; Section 9: Nature of Grant; and the Authorization to Release Transfer Necessary Personal Information and Method of Payment provisions above.
Notifications
You are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Shares to or from Italy exceeding 10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; and (b) any foreign investments or investments (including proceeds from the sale of Options acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding 10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to income in Italy. You exempt from the formalities in (a) if the investments are made through an authorized broker resident in Italy, as the broker will comply with the reporting obligation on your behalf.
Exchange Control Information.
JAPAN
There are no country specific provisions.
KOREA
Notifications
To remit funds out of Korea to exercise the Options by a cash-exercise method, you must obtain a confirmation of the remittance by a foreign exchange bank in Korea. This is an automatic procedure, ( the bank does not need to approve the remittance and the process should not take more than a single day). You likely will need to present the bank processing the transaction supporting documentation evidencing the nature of the remittance.
Exchange Control Information.
i.e.,
If you realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares, Korean exchange control laws require you to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of the sale.
MALAYSIA
Notifications
You should be aware of the Malaysian insider-trading rules, which may impact your acquisition or disposal of Shares or rights to Shares under the Plan. Under the Malaysian insider-trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling Shares or rights to Shares (, an Award under the Plan) when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Shares once such information is generally available.
Malaysian Insider Trading Notification.
e.g.
If you are a director of the Company's Malaysian Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Malaysian Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Malaysian Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing when you receive or dispose of an interest (, an Award under the Plan or Shares) in the Company or any related company. Such notifications must be made within 14 days of receiving or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g.
MEXICO
Terms and Conditions
The following provisions supplement Sections 8 and 9 of the Terms and Conditions:
No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation.
By accepting the Options, you understand and agree that any modification of the Plan or the Agreement or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.
Modification.
The Award of Options the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability.
Policy Statement.
The Company, with registered offices at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way, establish an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is Advanced Micro Devices, Blvd. Manuel vila Camacho No. 40, Torre Esmeralda 1, Piso 18 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Mxico DF, CP 11000Mxico, nor does it establish any rights between you and the Employer.
By accepting the Award of Options, you acknowledge that you have received copies of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.
Plan Document Acknowledgment.
In addition, by signing the Agreement, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions in Section 9 of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the
Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the Options.
Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages as a result of your participation in the Plan and therefore grant a full and broad release to the Employer, the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.
Spanish Translation
Trminos y Condiciones
Renuncia de Derecho o Reclamo por Compensacin.
Las siguientes disposiciones complementan los apartados 8 y 9 de los Trminos y Condiciones:
Modificacin.
Al aceptar las Opciones, usted reconoce y acuerda que cualquier modificacin del Plan o del Acuerdo o de su terminacin no constituye un cambio o desmejora de los trminos y condiciones de empleo.
Declaracin de Poltica.
El Otorgamiento de Opciones de la Compaa en virtud del Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compaa se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin responsabilidad alguna.
La Compaa, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, U.S.A., es la nica responsable de la administracin del Plan y de la participacin en el mismo y la adquisicin de Acciones no establece de forma alguna una relacin laboral entre usted y la Compaa, ya que su participacin en el Plan es completamente comercial y el nico empleador es Advanced Micro Devices, Blvd. Manuel vila Camacho No. 40, Torre Esmeralda 1, Piso 18 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Mxico DF, CP 11000  Mxico, as como tampoco establece ningn derecho entre usted y el Empleador.
Reconocimiento del Documento del Plan.
Al aceptar el Otorgamiento de Opciones, usted reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, ha revisado el mismo, al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado completamente todas las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.
Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, reconoce que ha ledo, y que aprueba especfica y expresamente los trminos y condiciones contenidos en el apartado 9 del Acuerdo, en el cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la participacin en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participacin en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compaa de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participacin en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compaa, as como su Sociedad Controlante, Subsidiaria o Afiliada no son responsables por ninguna disminucin en el valor de las Acciones en relacin a las Opciones.
Finalmente, declara que no se reserva ninguna accin o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compaa por compensacin, dao o perjuicio alguno como resultado de su participacin en el Plan y, en consecuencia, exime amplia y completamente al Empleador, as como a la Compaa, a su Sociedad Controlante, Subsidiaria o Afiliada con respecto a cualquier reclamo que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.
NETHERLANDS
Notifications
You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of Shares issued to you at vesting and settlement of the Options. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Shares if you have inside information about the Company. If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult your personal legal advisor.
Insider-Trading Notification.
POLAND
Notifications
If you hold foreign securities (including Shares) and maintain accounts abroad, you may be required to file certain reports with the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the value of securities and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds 10,000, you must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis by the 20
Exchange Control Information.
th
day of the month following the end of each quarter and an annual report by no later than January 30 of the following calendar year. Such reports are filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.
SINGAPORE
Notifications
The Award of Options is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) ("SFA") for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA.
Securities Law Information
.
If you are a director, associate director or shadow director of the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing when you receive an interest (, an Award or Shares) in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. In addition, you must notify the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate when you sell Shares or shares of any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate (including when you sell Shares issued upon vesting and settlement of the Options). These notifications must be made within two days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. In addition, a notification of your interests in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate must be made within two days of becoming a director.
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g.
SPAIN
Terms and Conditions
The following provisions supplement Sections 8 and 9 of the Terms and Conditions:
No Entitlement for Claims or Compensation.
By accepting the Options, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.
You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant Options under the Plan to individuals who may be Consultants, Directors and Employees throughout the world. The decision is limited and entered into based upon the express assumption and condition that any Options will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, including the Employer, on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the Options are granted on the assumption and condition that the Options shall not become part of any employment contract (whether with the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, including the Employer) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purpose (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Furthermore, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from the grant of Options, which is gratuitous and discretionary, since the future value of the Options and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. You also understand that this grant of Options would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions set forth hereinabove; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or any of the conditions not be met for any reason, the Options and any right to the underlying Shares shall be null and void.
Notifications
You must declare the acquisition of Shares to the ("DGPCIE") of the for statistical purposes. You must also declare the ownership of any Shares with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January while the Shares are owned. In addition, you wish to import the share certificates into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the DGPCIE.
Exchange Control Information.
Direccin General de Poltica Comercial e Inversiones Exteriores
Ministerio de Economia
When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares (, dividends or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.
i.e.
SWEDEN
There are no country specific provisions.
TAIWAN
Notifications
You may acquire and remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares) into and out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year. If the transaction amount is TWD$500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a foreign exchange transaction form and also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.
Exchange Control Information.
If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more, you may be required to provide additional supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. Please consult your personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control laws in Taiwan.
THAILAND
Notifications
If you remit funds out of Thailand to purchase Shares, it is your responsibility to comply with any applicable exchange control laws. Under current exchange control regulations, you may remit funds out of Thailand up to U.S. $1,000,000 per year to purchase Shares (and otherwise invest in securities abroad) by submitting an application to an authorized agent, ( a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency). The application includes the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form, a letter describing the Options, a copy of the Plan and related documents, and evidence showing the nexus between the Company and the Employer. If you use a cashless method of exercise that does not involve remitting any funds out of Thailand, this requirement does not apply.
Exchange Control Information.
i.e.,
When you sell Shares issued to you at exercise of the Options, you must immediately repatriate all cash proceeds to Thailand and then convert such proceeds to Thai Baht within 360 days of repatriation. If the amount of your proceeds is US$20,000 or more, you must specifically report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds from the sale of Shares into Thailand. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand.
TURKEY
Notifications
Exchange control regulations require Turkish residents to purchase securities through financial intermediary institutions that are approved under the Capital Market Law (, banks licensed in Turkey). Therefore, if Optionee exercises his or her Option using a cash exercise method, the funds must be remitted through a bank or other financial institution licensed in Turkey. A wire transfer of funds by a Turkish bank will satisfy this requirement. This requirement does not apply to a cashless exercise, as no funds are remitted out of Turkey.
Exchange Control Information.
i.e.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
There are no country specific provisions.
UNITED KINGDOM
Terms & Conditions
The following provisions supplement Section 7: Responsibility for Taxes in the Terms and Conditions:
Tax Acknowledgment.
You shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the "") that cannot be satisfied by the means described in Section 7 of the Terms and Conditions. If payment or withholding is not made within ninety (90) days of the Taxable Event or such other period as required under U.K. law (the ""), you agree that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming you are not a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)) constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC Official Rate and it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 7 of the Terms and Conditions. If you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan.
Taxable Event
Due Date
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), you will not be eligible for such a loan to cover the Tax-Related Items. In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the Tax-Related Items are not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items will constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and National Insurance contributions will be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax and National Insurance contributions due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.

Exhibit 10.3
Advanced Micro Devices, a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), this award of restricted stock units set forth below (the ""). This award of RSUs is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located in the U.S. Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice and the Terms and Conditions.
Company
Plan
Participant
RSUs
Terms and Conditions
 
            [To be specified in individual agreements]
Vesting Schedule:
By his or her signature, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Terms and Conditions and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Terms and Conditions, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Terms and Conditions and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Terms and Conditions.
 
The following Terms and Conditions, together with the accompanying Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice (Grant Notice) and Confirmation of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), comprise your agreement with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the Company) regarding the RSUs.
1. . The RSUs will vest on the date(s) shown on the Grant Notice if you continue to perform the duties assigned to you by the Company's management in a manner and with results satisfactory to the Company's management and remain an employee of the Company through each vesting date.
Vesting of Shares Subject to Restricted Stock Units
2. After the RSUs vest, the shares will be issued in your name without restrictions as soon as practicable after you have satisfied withholding tax obligations (see paragraph 5 (a), below.)
Issuance of Shares.
3. . The RSUs may not be pledged, assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Units
4. If your employment with the Company terminates for any reason before the vesting date(s) shown on the Grant Notice, your unvested RSUs will be cancelled and you will not have any right to receive shares of AMD common stock (Shares) pursuant to the RSU.
.
Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
5. .
Other Terms and Conditions
a. . The RSUs will become taxable to you upon the date that the Shares vest (the Tax Date). On the Tax Date you will be required to pay an amount to the Company to enable the Company to satisfy its obligation to withhold federal and state withholding taxes arising on the Tax Date. The withholding taxes must be paid by (i) cash from your account at the broker designated by AMD (Designated Broker) for such purpose or (ii) the selling of sufficient Shares on the Tax Date. If AMD in its sole discretion considers you to be an "insider" and the vesting date of these RSUs falls outside of an open stock trading window, unless otherwise determined by AMD you may have shares withheld to satisfy your minimum withholding tax obligations. If your election to pay withholding taxes by cash is not received by the deadline for such election or if there is insufficient cash in your account at the Designated Broker on the Tax Date to cover withholding tax obligations, you hereby authorize the Company to withhold from cash compensation otherwise payable to you or arrange for the sale or withhold a sufficient number of Shares from the total number of Shares otherwise deliverable to you upon vesting to cover minimum withholding tax obligations.
Withholding Tax
b. . This Agreement is further subject to the terms and provisions of the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan). Only certain provisions of the Plan are described in these Terms and Conditions. As a condition to your receipt of the RSUs and the Shares upon vesting, you acknowledge and agree to these Terms and Conditions and the terms and provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms which are not otherwise defined in these Terms and Conditions shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
The Plan
c. . Until the Shares are issued, you have no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder exist with respect to the RSUs.
Stockholder Rights
d. . Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company, or shall interfere with or restrict rights of the Company, which are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge you at any time, with or without cause.
Employment Relationship
e. . If your employment is terminated by the Company for any reason other than for Misconduct or, if applicable, by you as a result of a Constructive Termination, within one year after a Change of Control, then the Shares shall become fully vested upon the date of termination.
Change of Control
f. . If you wish to decline your RSUs, you must complete and file the Declination of Grant form with Corporate Compensation and Benefits by the deadline for such declination. Your declination is non-revocable, and you will not receive a grant of stock options or other compensation as replacement for the declined RSUs.
Declination of RSUs
g. . In the event the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the Administrator will review all equity-based compensation (including the RSUs) awarded to you if you are at the Senior Vice President level and above. If the Administrator (in its sole discretion) determines that you were directly involved with fraud, misconduct and/or gross negligence that contributed to or resulted in such accounting restatement, the Administrator may, to the extent permitted by governing law and as appropriate under the circumstances, recover for the benefit of the Company all or a portion of the equity-based compensation awarded to you, including (without limitation) by cancelation, forfeiture, repayment and/or disgorgement of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company; , the Administrator will not have the authority to recover any equity-based compensation awarded more than 18 months prior to the date of the first public issuance or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurs) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement. In determining whether to seek recovery, the Administrator shall take into account such considerations as it deems appropriate, including governing law and whether the assertion of a recovery claim may prejudice the interests of the Company in any related proceeding or investigation.
Recovery in the Event of a Financial Restatement
provided, however
6. . The issuance and transfer of the Shares will be subject to and conditioned upon compliance by the Company and you with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed or quoted at the time of such issuance or transfer.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
7. . The Company may assign any of its rights under these Terms and Conditions. These Terms and Conditions shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer contained herein, these Terms and Conditions will be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
8. . These Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within California, excluding that body of laws pertaining to conflict of laws. If any provision of these Terms and Conditions is determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible and the other provisions will remain fully effective and enforceable.
Governing Law; Severability
9. . The parties agree to execute further instruments and to take further actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of these Terms and Conditions.
Further Instruments
10. . The captions and headings of these Terms and Conditions are included for ease of reference only and will be disregarded in interpreting or construing these Terms and Conditions. All references herein to Sections will refer to Sections of these Terms and Conditions.
Headings
11. . The Plan, these Terms and Conditions, the Grant Notice and the Confirmation of Grant of Restricted Stock Units constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this these Terms and Conditions, and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between the parties with respect to the specific subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement

Exhibit 10.4
Advanced Micro Devices, a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the ""), hereby grants to the holder listed below (""), this award of restricted stock units set forth below (the ""). This award of RSUs is subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located outside the U.S. Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "") and the Plan, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Grant Notice and the Terms and Conditions.
Company
Plan
Participant
RSUs
Terms and Conditions
 
            [To be specified in individual agreements]
Vesting Schedule:
By his or her signature, Participant agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Terms and Conditions and this Grant Notice. Participant has reviewed the Terms and Conditions, the Plan and this Grant Notice in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Grant Notice and fully understands all provisions of this Grant Notice, the Terms and Conditions and the Plan. Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan, this Grant Notice or the Terms and Conditions.
 
The following Terms and Conditions, together with the accompanying Confirmation of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (""), the Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice for Participants Located Outside of the U.S.("") and any country-specific terms and conditions contained in the Appendix (as described in Section 17, below), comprise your agreement (the "") with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") regarding the RSUs awarded under the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""). Capitalized terms not specifically defined herein shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the Plan
RSUs
Grant Notice
Agreement
Company
Plan
1. . The RSUs will vest on the date(s) shown on the Grant Notice provided that you continue to be a Service Provider through each vesting date.
Vesting of Restricted Stock Units
2. After the RSUs vest, the shares will be issued in your name without restrictions as soon as practicable after you have satisfied Tax-Related Items obligations (see Section 5, below) and subject to any country-specific terms and conditions set forth in the Appendix.
Issuance of Shares.
3. . The RSUs may not be pledged, assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Units
4. If your status as a Service Provider terminates for any reason before the vesting date(s) shown on the Grant Notice, your unvested RSUs will be cancelled and you will not have any right to receive shares of AMD common stock ("") pursuant to the RSUs.
.
Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
Shares
5. . Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the "") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (""), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or settlement of the RSUs, the issuance of Shares upon settlement of the RSUs, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such issuance and the receipt of any dividends and/or any dividend equivalents; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you have become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.
Responsibility for Taxes
Employer
Tax-Related Items
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you will pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
 
 
 
To avoid negative accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan.
Finally, you shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
6. .
Other Terms and Conditions
a. . This Agreement is further subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan. Only certain provisions of the Plan are described in these Terms and Conditions. As a condition to your receipt of the RSUs and the Shares upon vesting, you acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and the terms and provisions of the Plan.
The Plan
b. . Until the Shares are issued, you have no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder with respect to the RSUs.
Stockholder Rights
c. . Nothing in the Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of your Employer nor shall interfere with or restrict rights of your Employer, which are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge you at any time, with or without cause provided in compliance with applicable local laws.
Employment Relationship
d. . If your employment is terminated by your Employer for any reason other than for Misconduct or, if applicable, by you as a result of a Constructive Termination, within one year after a Change of Control, then the Shares shall become fully vested upon the date of termination.
Change of Control
e. . If you wish to decline your RSUs, you must complete and file the Declination of Grant form with Corporate Compensation and Benefits by the deadline for such declination. Your declination is non-revocable, and you will not receive a grant of stock options or other compensation as replacement for the declined RSUs.
Declination of RSUs
f. . In the event the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the Administrator will review all equity-based compensation (including the RSUs) awarded to Company employees at the Senior Vice President level and above. If the Administrator (in its sole discretion) determines that any such Company employee was directly involved with fraud, misconduct and/or gross negligence that contributed to or resulted in such accounting restatement, the Administrator may, to the extent permitted by governing law and as appropriate under the circumstances, recover for the benefit of the Company all or a portion of the equity-based compensation awarded to you, including (without limitation) by cancelation, forfeiture, repayment and/or disgorgement of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company; , the Administrator will have the authority to recover any equity-based compensation awarded more than 18 months prior to the date of the first public issuance or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurs) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement. In determining whether to seek recovery, the Administrator shall take into account such considerations as it deems appropriate, including governing law and whether the assertion of a recovery claim may prejudice the interests of the Company in any related proceeding or investigation.
Recovery in the Event of a Financial Restatement
provided, however
7. In accepting the grant, you acknowledge that:
.
Nature of Grant
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;
(b) the grant of the RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future RSU grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment relationship at any time;
(e) you are voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(f) the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or the Employer, and which is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any;
(g) the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(h) the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer, its Parent, or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;
(i) the RSU grant and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;
(j) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(k) in consideration of the grant of the RSUs, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the RSUs resulting from termination of your employment with the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of Applicable Laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim;
(l) in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to vest in the RSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under applicable local laws (., active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to applicable local laws); the Administrator shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of your RSU grant; and
e.g
(m) the RSUs and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.
8. . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
No Advice Regarding Grant
9.
. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement and any other RSU Award Documentation by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
You understand that Data will be transferred to a Companydesignated Plan broker, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Company, its Plan broker and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
10. . The issuance and transfer of the Shares will be subject to and conditioned upon compliance by the Company and you with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed or quoted at the time of such issuance or transfer.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
11. . The Company may assign any of its rights under the Agreement. The Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer contained herein, the Agreement will be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
12. . The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within California, excluding that body of laws pertaining to conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or the Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of Santa Clara County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law; Severability
If any provision of the Agreement is determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible and the other provisions will remain fully effective and enforceable.
13. . The parties agree to execute further instruments and to take further actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of the Agreement.
Further Instruments
14. If you have received the Agreement or any other Award Documentation translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
.
Language
15. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.
.
Electronic Delivery
16. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with Applicable Laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
.
Imposition of Other Requirements
17. . The captions and headings of the Agreement are included for ease of reference only and will be disregarded in interpreting or construing the Agreement. All references herein to Sections will refer to Sections of the Agreement.
Headings
18. Notwithstanding any provisions in the Award Documentation, the RSU grant shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in an Appendix to the Terms and Conditions. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of the Agreement.
.
Appendix
19. . The Plan, these Terms and Conditions, the Appendix, the Grant Notice and the Confirmation of Grant of Restricted Stock Units constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of the Agreement, and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between the parties with respect to the specific subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
This Appendix to the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located Outside the U.S. includes additional terms and conditions that govern the grant RSUs in your country. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Appendix have the definitions ascribed to them in the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "") and/or the Terms and Conditions for Participants Located Outside the U.S. (as applicable).
Plan
This Appendix also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of December 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at vesting of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of the Shares or receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents.
In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.
Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you.
ARGENTINA
Notifications
Neither the RSUs nor the issuance of Shares are publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.
Securities Law Information.
. In the event that you transfer proceeds in excess of US$2,000,000 from the sale of Shares into Argentina in a single month, you will be subject to certain exchange control laws. Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. You should consult with your personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that you may have.
Exchange Control Information
AUSTRALIA
Notifications
If you acquire Shares pursuant to the RSUs and you offer the Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, the offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. You should obtain legal advice on disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.
Securities Law Information.
Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding A$10,000 and international fund transfers. The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report. If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, you will be required to file the report.
Exchange Control Information.
BELGIUM
There are no country specific provisions.
BRAZIL
Notifications
If you are a resident or domiciled in Brazil, you will be required to submit an annual declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000. Please note that the US$100,000 threshold may be changed annually.
Exchange Control Information.
CANADA
Notifications
The following provisions will apply if you are a resident of Quebec:
French Language Provision.
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
("Agreement"),
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la redaction en anglais de cette convention
ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procedures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  la prsente convention.
. The following provision replaces Section 4 of the Terms and Conditions:
Termination of Service
In the event of the termination of your status as Service Provider for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested RSUs shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the RSUs will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of (1) the date you receive notice of termination from your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively providing service, regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing service for purposes of the RSUs.
The following provision supplements Section 9 of the Terms and Conditions:
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information.
You hereby authorize the Company and the Company's representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company, any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and the Administrator of the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors. You further authorize the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in your employee file.
CHINA
Terms and Conditions
The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Terms and Conditions:
Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Sale of Shares.
You agree to maintain any Shares you obtain upon vesting in an account with the designated plan broker prior to sale. Further, you agree to sell all shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs promptly upon notice of termination of your employment with the Company or its Parent, Subsidiary, Affiliate or the Employer. You agree that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization) and you expressly authorize the Company's designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares. You agree to sign any forms and/or consents required by the Company's broker to effectuate the sale of Shares in case of termination of employment. You acknowledge that the Company's designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the sale of Shares upon termination of employment will be made as soon as administratively possible after stock plan administration is aware of your termination, but the Company is not committing to sell the Shares at any particular time after termination of employment. However, you are always free to sell the Shares yourself at any time prior to the date the Company arranges for the sale of the Shares. Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay you the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items. You acknowledge that you are not aware of any material nonpublic information with respect to the Company or any securities of the Company as of the date of this Agreement.
 You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, you will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares issued upon the vesting of the RSUs to China. You further understand that, under Applicable Laws, such repatriation of your cash proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company, its Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate or the Employer, and you hereby consent and agree that any proceeds from the sale of any Shares you acquire may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to you. You also understand that the Company will deliver the proceeds to you as soon as possible, but there may be delays in distributing the funds to you due to exchange control requirements in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company's discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular exchange conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.
Exchange Control Requirements.
FRANCE
Notifications
The RSUs are not intended to be French tax-qualified Awards.
Tax Information.
Terms and Conditions
By signing and returning this Agreement, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to the Plan which were provided to you in English language. You accept the terms of those documents accordingly.
French Language Provision.
French translation:
En signant et renvoyant ce Contrat vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs au Plan qui vous ont t communiqus en langue anglaise. Vous en acceptez les termes en connaissance de cause.
FINLAND
There are no country specific provisions.
GERMANY
Notifications
. Cross-border payments in excess of 12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank. If you use a German bank to transfer a cross-border payment in excess of 12,500 in connection with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan, the bank will make the report for you. In addition, you must report any receivables, payables, or debts in foreign currency exceeding an amount of 5,000,000 on a monthly basis.
Exchange Control Information
HONG KONG
Terms and Conditions
Warning
: The RSUs and Shares issued at vesting do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to Service Providers of the Company, its Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental Award Documentation have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor has the Award Documentation been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The RSUs are intended only for the personal use of each eligible Service Provider of the Employer, the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice.
The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Terms and Conditions:
Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Sale of Shares.
In the event your RSUs vest and Shares are issued to you within six months of the date of grant, you agree that you will not dispose of any Shares acquired prior to the six-month anniversary of the date of grant.
Notifications
The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance.
Nature of Scheme.
INDIA
Terms and Conditions
By accepting the RSUs, you consent and agree to assume any and all liability for fringe benefit tax that may be payable by the Company and/or the Employer in connection with the RSUs at the discretion of the Company and/or the Employer. Further, by accepting the RSUs, you agree that the Company and/or the Employer may collect the fringe benefit tax from you by any of the means set forth in Section 5 of the Terms and Conditions, or any other reasonable method established by the Company. You also agree to execute any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, promptly upon request by the Company.
Fringe Benefit Tax Obligation.
Notifications
You understand that you must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan to India and convert the proceeds into local currency within 90 days of receipt. You will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ("FIRC") from the bank where you deposit the foreign currency. You should maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of fund in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Information.
IRELAND
Notifications
If you are a director, shadow director or secretary of the Company's Irish Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you must notify the Irish Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing within five business days of receiving or disposing of an interest in the Company (., RSUs, etc.), or within five business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement or within five days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This notification requirement also applies with respect to the interests of a spouse or children under the age of 18 (whose interests will be attributed to the director, shadow director or secretary).
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g
ITALY
Terms and Conditions
The following provision replaces in its entirety Section 9 of the Terms and Conditions:
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information.
You understand that the Employer and/or the Company may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the "Data") for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You are aware that providing the Company with your Data is necessary for the performance of the Agreement and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.
The Controller of personal data processing is Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, California 94088, USA, and, pursuant to D.lgs 196/2003, its representative in Italy is Advanced Micro Devices, Spa. Via Montefeltro, 420156 Milano, Italy. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any transfer required to a broker or other third party with whom Shares acquired pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, the recipients that may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer such Data for the above mentioned purposes may be located in Italy or elsewhere, including outside of the European Union and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. The processing activity, including the transfer of your personal data abroad, outside of the European Union, as herein specified and pursuant to Applicable Laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto as the processing is necessary for the performance of contractual obligations related to the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand that Data processing relating to the purposes above specified shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data are collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to D.lgs. 196/2003.
You understand that Data will be held only as long as is required by law or as necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that pursuant to art.7 of D.lgs 196/2003, you have the right, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, request the rectification of your Data and cease, for legitimate reasons, the Data processing. Furthermore, you are aware that your Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, the Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting a local representative available at the following address: Advanced Micro Devices, Spa. Via Montefeltro, 420156 Milano, Italy.
In accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Agreement and have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the following sections of the Terms and Conditions: Section 1: Vesting of Restricted Stock Units, Section 2: Issuance of Shares; Section 4: Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units; Section 5: Responsibility for Taxes; Section 7: Nature of Grant and the Authorization to Release Transfer Necessary Personal Information above.
Plan Document Acknowledgment.
Notifications
You are required to report in your annual tax return: (a) any transfers of cash or Shares to or from Italy exceeding 10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars; and (b) any foreign investments or investments (including proceeds from the sale of RSUs acquired under the Plan) held outside of Italy exceeding 10,000 or the equivalent amount in U.S. dollars, if the investment may give rise to income in Italy. You exempt from the formalities in (a) if the investments are made through an authorized broker resident in Italy, as the broker will comply with the reporting obligation on your behalf.
Exchange Control Information.
JAPAN
There are no country specific provisions.
KOREA
Notifications
If you realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares, Korean exchange control laws require you to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of the sale.
Exchange Control Information.
MALAYSIA
Notifications
You should be aware of the Malaysian insider-trading rules, which may impact your acquisition or disposal of Shares or rights to Shares under the Plan. Under the Malaysian insider-trading rules, you are prohibited from acquiring or selling Shares or rights to Shares (, an Award under the Plan) when you are in possession of information which is not generally available and which you know or should know will have a material effect on the price of Shares once such information is generally available.
Malaysian Insider Trading Notification.
e.g.
If you are a director of the Company's Malaysian Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Malaysian Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Malaysian Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing when you receive or dispose of an interest (, an Award under the Plan or Shares) in the Company or any related company. Such notifications must be made within 14 days of receiving or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g.
MEXICO
Terms and Conditions
No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation. These provisions supplement Sections 6 and 7 of the Terms and Conditions:
By accepting the RSUs, you understand and agree that any modification of the Plan or the Agreement or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.
Modification.
The Award of RSUs the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability.
Policy Statement.
The Company, with registered offices at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way, establish an employment relationship between you and the Company since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is Advanced Micro Devices, Blvd. Manuel vila Camacho No. 40, Torre Esmeralda 1, Piso 18 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Mxico DF, CP 11000Mxico., nor does it establish any rights between you and the Employer.
By accepting the Award of RSUs, you acknowledge that you have received copies of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.
Plan Document Acknowledgment.
In addition, by signing the Agreement, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions in Section 7 of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the RSUs.
Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages as a result of your participation in the Plan and therefore grant a full and broad release to the Employer, the Company and any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.
Spanish Translation
Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral.
Estas disposiciones complementan el apartado 14 del Acuerdo:
Modification.
Al aceptar las Unidades de Accin Restringida, usted reconoce y acuerda que cualquier modificacin del Plan o su terminacin no constituye un cambio o desmejora de los trminos y condiciones de empleo.
Declaracin de Poltica.
El Otorgamiento de Unidades de Accin Restringida de la Compaa en virtud del Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compaa se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier tiempo, sin responsabilidad alguna.
La Compaa, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, CA 94088, U.S.A., es la nica responsable de la administracin del Plan y de la participacin en el mismo y la adquisicin de Acciones no establece de forma alguna una relacin de trabajo entre usted y la Compaa, ya que su participacin en el Plan es completamente comercial y el nico empleador es Advanced Micro Devices, Blvd. Manuel vila Camacho No. 40, Torre Esmeralda 1, Piso 18 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Mxico DF, CP 11000Mxico, as como tampoco establece ningn derecho entre la persona que tenga el derecho a optar y el Empleador.
Reconocimiento del Documento del Plan.
Al aceptar el Otorgamiento de las Unidades de Accin Restringida, usted reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, ha revisado el mismo, al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado completamente todas las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.
Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, reconoce que ha ledo, y que aprueba especfica y expresamente los trminos y condiciones contenidos en la Renuncia de Derecho o Reclamo por Compensacin, apartado 7 del Acuerdo, en el cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la participacin en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participacin en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compaa de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participacin en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compaa, as como su Sociedad controlante, Subsidiaria o Filiales no son responsables por cualquier disminucin en el valor de las Acciones en relacin a las Unidades de Accin Restringida.
Finalmente, declara que no se reserva ninguna accin o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compaa por compensacin, dao o perjuicio alguno como resultado de su participacin en el Plan y, en consecuencia, otorga el ms amplio finiquito al Empleador, as como a la Compaa, a su Sociedad controlante, Subsidiaria o Filiales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.
NETHERLANDS
Notifications
You should be aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of Shares issued to you at vesting and settlement of the RSUs. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions involving Shares if you have inside information about the Company. If you are uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to you, you should consult your personal legal advisor.
Insider-Trading Notification.
POLAND
Notifications
If you hold foreign securities (including Shares) and maintain accounts abroad, you may be required to file certain reports with the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the value of securities and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds 10,000, you must file reports on the transactions and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis by the 20
Exchange Control Information.
th
day of the month following the end of each quarter and an annual report by no later than January 30 of the following calendar year. Such reports are filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.
SINGAPORE
Notifications
The Award of RSUs is being made in reliance of section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) ("SFA") for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA.
Securities Law Information
.
If you are a director, associate director or shadow director of the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, you are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate in writing when you receive an interest (, an Award or Shares) in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. In addition, you must notify the Company's Singapore Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate when you sell Shares or shares of any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate (including when you sell Shares issued upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs). These notifications must be made within two days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. In addition, a notification of your interests in the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate must be made within two days of becoming a director.
Director Notification Obligation.
e.g.
SPAIN
Terms and Conditions
The following provision supplements Section 7 of the Terms and Conditions:
No Entitlement for Claims or Compensation.
By accepting the RSUs, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan document.
You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be Consultants, Directors and Employees throughout the world. The decision is limited and entered into based upon the express assumption and condition that any RSUs will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, including the Employer, on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Consequently, you understand that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs shall not become part of any employment contract (whether with the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, including the Employer) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purpose (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Furthermore, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from the grant of RSUs, which is gratuitous and discretionary, since the future value of the RSUs and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. You also understand that this grant of RSUs would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions set forth hereinabove; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or any of the conditions not be met for any reason, the RSUs and any right to the underlying Shares shall be null and void.
Notifications
You must declare the acquisition of Shares to the ("DGPCIE") of the for statistical purposes. You must also declare the ownership of any Shares with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January while the Shares are owned. In addition, you wish to import the share certificates into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the DGPCIE.
Exchange Control Information.
Direccin General de Poltica Comercial e Inversiones Exteriores
Ministerio de Economia
When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares (, dividends or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.
i.e.
SWEDEN
There are no country specific provisions.
TAIWAN
Notifications
You may acquire and remit foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares) into and out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year. If the transaction amount is TWD$500,000 or more in a single transaction, you must submit a foreign exchange transaction form and also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.
Exchange Control Information.
If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more, you may be required to provide additional supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. Please consult your personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control laws in Taiwan.
THAILAND
Notifications
When you sell Shares issued to you at vesting and settlement of the RSUs, you must repatriate all cash proceeds to Thailand and then convert such proceeds to Thai Baht within 360 days of repatriation. If the amount of your proceeds is US$20,000 or more, you must specifically report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If you fail to comply with these obligations, you may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand. You should consult your personal advisor before taking action with respect to remittance of proceeds from the sale of Shares into Thailand. You are responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand.
Exchange Control Information.
TURKEY
There are no country specific provisions.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
There are no country specific provisions.
UNITED KINGDOM
Terms & Conditions
The following provisions supplement Section 5: Responsibility for Taxes in the Terms and Conditions:
Tax Acknowledgment.
You shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the "") that cannot be satisfied by the means described in Section 5 of the Terms and Conditions. If payment or withholding is not made within ninety (90) days of the Taxable Event or such other period as required under U.K. law (the ""), you agree that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming you are not a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)) constitute a loan owed by you to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC Official Rate and it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section 5 of the Terms and Conditions. If you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan.
Taxable Event
Due Date
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), you will not be eligible for such a loan to cover the Tax-Related Items. In the event that you are a director or executive officer and the Tax-Related Items are not collected from or paid by you by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items will constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and National Insurance contributions will be payable. You will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax and National Insurance contributions due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.


