FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110721162601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On July 21, 2011, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011.
From the first fiscal quarter of 2010 through December 25, 2010, the Company deconsolidated GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. ("GF") results of operations and accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company started accounting for its investment in GF under the cost method of accounting. To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income excluding GF related items, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded GF related items (the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net and a payment to GF), and further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, certain restructuring reversals, and a gain from the sale of an investment.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a payment to GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and certain restructuring reversals.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement and a payment to GF.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: Effective as of the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company began accounting for its investment in GF under the cost method of accounting. For fiscal 2010, in conjunction with the deconsolidation of the results of operations of GF in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting.
Equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net
The equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net primarily consists of the Company's proportionate share of GF's losses for the period based on the Company's ownership percentage of GF's Class A Preferred Shares and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of capital infusions into GF by ATIC, and for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the net gain on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of ATIC's contribution of Chartered Semiconductor to GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and for the second fiscal quarter of 2010, because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF and GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF which do not benefit the Company. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income, and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These expenses included the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income and GAAP operating income for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $5 million to cost of sales related to a legal settlement. The Company excluded the $5 million charge from its GAAP net income, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Legal settlements
: In the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company sold a portion of its marketable securities and recognized a gain on the sale. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net loss because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain on investment sale
: Restructuring reversals represent the amount that the Company no longer expects to pay for its estimated restructuring accrual based on its assessment of the latest available facts and circumstances. The restructuring accrual was attributable to a restructuring plan implemented by the Company during fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 to reduce its breakeven point. The Company excluded the effect of the restructuring reversals from the Company's second fiscal quarter of 2010 GAAP net loss and GAAP operating income because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring reversals
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the six months ended July 2, 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related to a payment to GF and adjustments related to the legal settlement with a third party, and for the second fiscal quarter of 2010 and the six months ended June 26, 2010, the Company included an adjustment for certain restructuring reversals.
The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, the Company expects that as of the third quarter of 2011, it will transition away from making the adjustment for the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
 
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the second quarter of 2011 of $1.57 billion, net income of $61 million, or $0.08 per share, and operating income of $105 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $70 million, or $0.09 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $114 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 21, 2011 
AMD
"In the first half of 2011, AMD brought to market the most competitive client offerings in our history, reinforcing our position as a design and innovation powerhouse," said Thomas Seifert, CFO and Interim CEO. "Today's computing experience is increasingly being defined by the ability to deliver brilliant multimedia and video content with all day battery life. Fusion APUs are ideal to meet this need, positioning AMD to gain unit market share in the mobile computing space."
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to increase 10 percent, plus or minus 2 percent, sequentially for the third quarter of 2011.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
1
 
 
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its third quarter 2011 revenue, and future market share, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have significant impacts on the company's supply chain or its customers; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2011.
 
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, and are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
A reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
Second Quarter 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
Q2 2011 AMD Results
was $1.57 billion, down 2% compared to the first quarter of 2011 and down 5% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Revenue
was 46%, up one percentage point quarter-over-quarter due to a stronger mix in margin accretive APU platforms.
Non-GAAP gross margin
were $606 million, less than guided due to the timing of expense recognition related to new products.
Operating expenses
 
 
was $114 million and was $70 million. Both exclude the amortization of acquired intangible assets of $9 million.
Non-GAAP operating income
non-GAAP net income
was $0.09, calculated using 743 million fully diluted shares.
Non-GAAP EPS
was $205 million, up $7 million from the prior quarter due to lower operating expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA
 
 
Q2 2011 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.2 billion, flat compared to the prior quarter as higher mobile processor revenue was offset by lower server and desktop microprocessor revenue.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
 
APUs have opened up significant opportunities within our customer base,
 
 
 
was $142 million, up $42 million from the previous quarter, primarily due to improved gross margins from a richer mix of APU sales compared to the prior quarter.
Computing Solutions operating income
Q2 2011 Segment Results  Graphics
was $367 million, down 11% compared to the prior quarter mainly due to:
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
was $7 million, down $26 million from the prior quarter primarily due to lower revenue.
Graphics segment operating loss
 
 
Balance Sheet
at the end of the quarter was $1.86 billion, up $116 million compared to the end of the first quarter of 2011. The increase is primarily due to cash generated by operations.
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance
at the end of the quarter was $759 million, down $38 million compared to the end of the first quarter of 2011 due to a decline in revenue.
Accounts Receivable
was $642 million exiting the quarter, down slightly from the prior quarter.
Inventory
as of the end of the quarter was $2.2 billion.
Long term debt
was $143 million.
Non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow
 
We will continue to be strategic in our debt reduction efforts based on generating non-GAAP free cash flow and we expect to opportunistically look to reduce our debt based on market conditions.
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations.
Q3 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Notes: AMD's second quarter had 13 weeks of business compared to 14 weeks for the first quarter.
For more information, contact:
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Irmina Blaszczyk
408-749-3398
irmina.blaszczyk@amd.com
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including for non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GLOBALFOUDNRIES (GF) related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance.
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first quarter of 2011 and the six months ended July 2, 2011, the Company included an adjustment related to a payment to GF and a legal settlement with a third party. For the second quarter of 2010 and the six months ended June 26, 2010, the Company included an adjustment an adjustment for certain restructuring reversals. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries, (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adjusting GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with the IBM Parties. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
 
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation:
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
 
AMD reconciliation of GAAP operating income to Adjusted EBITDA
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the third quarter of 2011 and the second half of 2011, including our third quarter 2011 revenue and operating expenses, and our second half of 2011 ASP, gross margin and market share; the impact of the termination of our receivable funding arrangement with IBM Credit; our ability to continue to generate non-GAAP free cash flow; our future debt reduction activities; the continued success of our APU products; new opportunities in our customer base and in new market segments; APU unit shipments in the third quarter of 2011; the timing of new product introductions; and our competitive position in the server market and our ability to gain share in this market, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have significant impacts on the company's supply chain or its customers; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2011.
 


