FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110301170137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Base Salary
On February 24, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") approved an increase to the base salary of Mr. Thomas J. Seifert, the Company's Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer, from $525,000 to $606,000, effective July 1, 2011.
Election of Director
The Company's Board of Directors appointed Henry WK Chow as a director, effective February 26, 2011. In addition, Mr. Chow will be appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Chow will receive similar compensation as the Company provides to non-employee independent directors, which are described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2010. On February 26, 2011, Mr. Chow was granted 28,125 restricted stock units, which will vest in equal installments on the anniversary of the date of grant over three years.
There was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Chow and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Chow was selected as a director.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Chow's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
Thomson Chan
AMD China Public Relations
86- 13911752381
thomson.chan@amd.com
Brenda Rarick
US AMD Public Relations
512-602-8475
brenda.rarick@amd.com
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today announced that Henry Chow, 65, has been appointed to the company's board of . Chow spent more than 40 years at IBM, holding various leadership positions in IBM throughout the Asia Pacific region. He spent more than a decade as General Manager of IBM's Greater China Group, with responsibility for overseeing IBM's operations in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  March 1, 2011 
directors
"Henry's experience and insight gained by overseeing a multi-billion dollar technology business in China are invaluable assets to AMD," said , executive chairman, AMD Board of Directors. "China is one of the most important technology markets in the world and AMD is committed to furthering our growth in the Greater China region."
Bruce Claflin
During his career, Chow held a variety of management and marketing positions in services, systems engineering, sales and marketing and human resources. Prior to his retirement from IBM in 2009, Chow was general manager and then chairman of the IBM Greater China Group. Prior to these positions, Chow was general manager of the IBM PC Company for Asia Pacific South, overseeing IBM's personal computer business throughout the region, excluding Japan. He also held positions as assistant managing director of Services for IBM Australia, general manager of IBM Taiwan, and director of Operations for IBM Hong Kong. Chow joined IBM in 1968 as a programmer trainee.
Chow currently serves as an IBM corporate business advisor and previously served as a member of the Board of Trustees at Tongji University. Chow holds a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Hong Kong.
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its ground-breaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs). AMD's graphics and computing technologies power a variety of solutions including PCs, game consoles and the servers that drive the Internet and businesses. For more information, visit http://www.amd.com.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


