FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110421163205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On April 21, 2011, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011.
From the first fiscal quarter of 2010 through December 25, 2010, the Company deconsolidated GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. ("GF") results of operations and accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company started accounting for its investment in GF under the cost method of accounting. To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income excluding GF related items, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded GF related items (the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net and a payment to GF). The Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and charges related to legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded GF related items (the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net). The Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a gain from a legal settlement, income tax related to a legal settlement and a gain from the sale of marketable securities related to an investment.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded GF related items (the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF, the deconsolidation gain based on the fair value assessment of its investment in GF and the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net). The Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a payment to GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, and a gain from a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF and the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement and a payment to GF.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: The deconsolidation of GF's results of operations from the Company's results of operations resulted in incremental gross margin benefit in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 when compared to AMD Product Company in prior periods. "AMD Product Company" refers to the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. on a stand-alone basis, which were derived by excluding from the Company's consolidated operating results the Company's former Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations consisting of revenues, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. This was partially attributable to the elimination of the mark-up charged by GF from the value of inventory as of the beginning of the first fiscal quarter of 2010. In addition, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company updated its inventory standard costs process with respect to inventory purchased from GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for its first fiscal quarter of 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods. The impact of this item for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 was not material.
Gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF
: Effective as of the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company deconsolidated the results of operations of GF and through December 25, 2010, accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Under the accounting guidelines pertaining to deconsolidation, the Company's opening investment in GF was required to be recorded at fair value as of the date of deconsolidation. The difference between this initial fair value of the investment in GF and the net carrying book value was recognized as a gain or loss in earnings. During the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company completed a valuation analysis to determine the initial fair value of its investment in GF. Based on this analysis, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company recognized a non-cash, one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of approximately $325 million. The Company excluded this gain from the Company's GAAP net income for the first fiscal quarter of 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Deconsolidation gain on the fair value assessment of investment in GF
: Effective as of the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company began accounting for its investment in GF under the cost method of accounting. For the fiscal 2010, in conjunction with the deconsolidation of the results of operations of GF in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. The equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net primarily consists of the Company's proportionate share of GF's losses for the period based on the Company's ownership percentage of GF's Class A Preferred Shares, the Company's portion of the non-cash accretion on GF's Class B Preferred Shares, the elimination of intercompany profit, reflecting the mark-up on inventory that remains on the Company's balance sheet at the end of the period, the amortization of basis differences identified from the purchase price allocation process based on the fair value of GF upon deconsolidation, and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of capital infusions into GF by ATIC, and for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the net gain on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of ATIC's contribution of Chartered Semiconductor to GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for all periods presented, because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF and GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
Equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF, which do not benefit the Company. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income, and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These expenses included the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income and GAAP operating income for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: On December 22, 2010, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with a third party. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company will receive an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes. The Company recorded a gain of $283 million in connection with this agreement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $5 million to cost of sales related to a legal settlement. The Company excluded the $283 million gain from its GAAP net income and GAAP operating income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and the $5 million charge from its GAAP net income, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because they are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Legal settlements
On December 22, 2010, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with a third party. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company will receive an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes. The Company recorded a $47 million tax provision related to this legal settlement in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Income tax related to legal settlement:
: In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company sold a portion of its marketable securities and recognized a gain on the sale. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain on investment sale
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company included adjustments related to the legal settlements with third parties, and for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related to a payment to GF.
The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the
Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, the Company expects that as of the third quarter of 2011, it will transition away from making the adjustment for the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the first quarter of 2011 of $1.61 billion, net income of $510 million, or $0.68 per share, and operating income of $54 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $56 million, or $0.08 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $92 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Apr. 21, 2011 
AMD
"First quarter operating results were highlighted by strong demand for our first generation of AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs)," said Thomas Seifert, CFO and interim CEO. "APU unit shipments greatly exceeded our expectations, and we are excited to build on that momentum now that we are shipping our Llano' APU."
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to be flat to slightly down sequentially for the second quarter of 2011.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income
1,3
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
1,3
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
1,3
 
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its second quarter 2011 revenue and demand for the Company's products, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have significant impacts on the company's supply chain or its customers; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2010.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, and are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
A reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com
First Quarter 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
 
Q1 2011 Commentary
was $1.61 billion, down 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 and up 2% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Revenue
The quarter-over-quarter decline was primarily due to:
 
 
was 45%, flat quarter-over-quarter due to:
Non-GAAP gross margin
 
 
were $628 million, significantly less than the guided $650 million due to tight expense management.
Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
was $92 million, which excludes the impact of:
Non-GAAP operating income
 
 
was $56 million, which excludes:
Non-GAAP net income
 
 
 
was 8 cents in the first quarter of 2011, calculated using 740 million fully diluted shares. The shares used to calculate AMD's first quarter GAAP EPS is 764 million on a fully diluted basis. The GAAP diluted share count is higher than the non-GAAP diluted share count due to the inclusion of common shares issuable upon conversion of the 5.75% convertible notes, which become dilutive above 30 cents EPS, and were therefore dilutive to first quarter GAAP EPS of 68 cents.
Non-GAAP diluted EPS
was $198 million, down $43 million from the prior quarter primarily due to the decline in revenue and an increase in operating expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q1 2011 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.2 billion, down 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to:
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
APU platforms are gaining traction in the market as evidenced by a faster than anticipated ramp as unit shipments tripled over the prior quarter. Adding to this momentum, we started shipping Llano, our high-end APU, late in the first quarter of 2011.
was $100 million, up $9 million from the previous quarter, primarily due to improved gross margins from a higher mix of APU sales compared to the prior quarter.
Computing Solutions operating income
 
 
Q1 2011 Segment Results  Graphics
was $413 million, down 3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 mainly due to:
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
was $19 million, down $49 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to seasonally lower game console revenue.
Graphics segment operating income
Balance Sheet
at the end of the quarter was $1.75 billion, down $44 million compared to the end of the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance
at the end of the quarter was $797 million, down $171 million compared to the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily due to timing of sales.
Accounts Receivable
was $648 million exiting the quarter.
Inventory
as of the end of the quarter was $2.2 billion.
Long term debt
was $154 million, up $143 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 due to higher non-GAAP net cash provided by operating activities.
Non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow
 
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations.
Q2 2011:
 
 
 
 
Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA)  as amended in Q1 2011
In the first quarter of 2011, AMD amended its WSA with GF. The financial impact of the WSA amendment is outlined below:
 
 
 
(* These costs could increase or decrease as a result of variations in yields and several other factors, including our current expectations regarding demand for our products.)
AMD held a conference call on April 4, 2011 related to the WSA amendment. Further details about the WSA amendment and access to the replay of the conference call and webcast can be accessed at .
http://ir.amd.com
For more information, contact:
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Irmina Blaszczyk
408-749-3398
irmina.blaszczyk@amd.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including for non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first quarter of 2011, the Company included an adjustment related to a payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES and a legal settlement with a third party; and for the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with a third party. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries, (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adjusting GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that
 
 
cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with the IBM Parties. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP Adjusted Free Cash Flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
Non-GAAP Reconciliation:
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income
(Millions except per share amounts)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
(Millions)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
(Millions except percentages)
 
 
 
AMD reconciliation of GAAP operating income to Adjusted EBITDA
(Millions)
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
(Millions)
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the second quarter of 2011, including our second quarter 2011 revenue and operating expenses, the impact of the termination of our receivable funding arrangement with IBM Credit and our expected future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES under the Wafer Supply Agreement, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have significant impacts on the company's supply chain or its customers; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2010.
 


