FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110208170133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 2, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") approved a bonus award for each of the following Named Executive Officers (as defined in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 29, 2010): Mr. Thomas Seifert, the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Emilio Ghilardi, the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer, for fiscal year 2010, under the Executive Incentive Plan (the ""). The bonus awards consist of cash payments in the amount of $1,050,000 for Mr. Seifert and $942,865 for Mr. Ghilardi and will be paid in March 2011. Pursuant to the Plan, the bonus opportunities were based on the achievement of a pre-established key company-wide corporate financial measure, the non-GAAP operating income.
Compensation Committee
Company
Plan
The Company intends to provide additional information regarding the bonus awarded to Mr. Seifert and Mr. Ghilardi for the 2010 fiscal year in the Company's proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


