FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110509125427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2011, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "") held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the ""). At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company voted on the following five proposals, each of which are described in detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2011 (the ""):
Company
Annual Meeting
Proxy
The following individuals were elected to the Company's Board of Directors:
Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors.
 
The stockholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011.
Proposal No. 2: Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
 
 
The Company's 2011 Equity Incentive Plan was approved.
Proposal No. 3: Approval of the 2011 Executive Incentive Plan.
 
The stockholders approved, on a non-binding advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as disclosed in the Proxy.
Proposal No. 4: Approval on a Non-Binding, Advisory Basis of the Compensation of our Named Executive Officers ("Say-on-Pay").
 
The stockholders recommended, on a non-binding advisory basis, that a stockholder advisory vote on the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers should occur every year.
Proposal No. 5: Approval on a Non-Binding, Advisory Basis Whether Say-on-Pay Should Occur Every Year, Every Two Years or Every Three Years.
 
Based on these results, the Company has decided to hold a stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year, until the next stockholder advisory vote on the frequency of the stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of named executive officers. A stockholder advisory vote on the frequency of stockholder advisory votes on the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers is required to be held at least once every six years.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


