FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20110120213715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On January 20, 2011, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended December 25, 2010 and for the fiscal year then ended in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended December 25, 2010 and the fiscal year then ended.
Beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company deconsolidated GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. ("GF") results of operations and through December 25, 2010 accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP income (loss) per share, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical period operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
For the fourth fiscal quarter and the year ended December 26, 2009, the Company has provided non-GAAP statement of operations financial measures for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. on a stand-alone basis (historically referred to as "AMD Product Company") by excluding from the Company's consolidated results of operations certain GF/Foundry segment related items, which for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and the year ended December 26, 2009, consisted of Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations consisting of net revenue, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. The Company has also provided certain balance sheet line items that exclude the Foundry segment. The Company is providing these non-GAAP financial measures because the Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical period operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the equity in net income (loss) of investee. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, gain from legal settlement, income tax related to legal settlement and gain on investment sale.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the third fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the equity in net income (loss) of investee. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for the third fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and the loss on debt redemption.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the net loss from the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations, the impact of net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest and the Class B preferred accretion. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, gains from legal settlements, the loss on debt redemption and the loss from discontinued operations.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF, the deconsolidation gain based on the fair value assessment of its investment in GF and the equity in net income (loss) of investee. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2010, the Company further excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, gain from legal settlement, income tax related to legal settlement, gain on investment sale, loss on debt redemption and certain restructuring reversals.
To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items for the Company for fiscal 2009, the Company excluded the net loss from the Foundry segment and the Intersegment Eliminations, the effect of an incremental tax provision related to the formation of GF, the impact of net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest and the Class B preferred accretion. To derive non-GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2009, the Company further excluded, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, gains from legal settlements, the net gain (loss) on debt redemption, the loss from discontinued operations, the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, certain restructuring charges, AMD Product Company formation costs associated with GF, the effect of an incremental tax provision related to the formation of GF, investment net charges and the gain from the Company's sale of certain Handheld assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2010, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets. For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company further excluded the gain from legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, gains from legal settlements, and the operating loss from Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due the deconsolidation of GF, amortization of acquired intangible assets, gain from legal settlement and certain restructuring reversals.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the Company for fiscal 2009, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, the gain from the Intel legal settlement, certain restructuring charges, AMD Product Company formation costs associated with GF and the operating loss from the Foundry segment and the Intersegment Eliminations.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company excluded the gross margin from the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for fiscal 2009, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 and the gross margin from the Foundry segment and the Intersegment Eliminations.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: The deconsolidation of GF's results of operations from the Company's results of operations resulted in incremental gross margin benefit in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 when compared to AMD Product Company in prior periods. This was partially attributable to the elimination of the mark-up charged by GF from the value of inventory as of the beginning of the first fiscal quarter of 2010. In addition, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company updated its inventory standard costs process with respect to inventory purchased from GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods. The impact of this item for the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2010 was not material.
Gross margin benefits due to the deconsolidation of GF
: Effective as of December 27, 2009, the Company deconsolidated the results of operations of GF and through December 25, 2010 accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Under the accounting guidelines pertaining to deconsolidation, the Company's opening investment in GF was required to be recorded at fair value as of the date of deconsolidation. The difference between this initial fair value of the investment in GF and the net carrying book value was recognized as a gain or loss in earnings. During the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company completed a valuation analysis to determine the initial fair value of its investment in GF. Based on this analysis, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company recognized a non-cash, one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of approximately $325 million. The Company excluded this gain from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Deconsolidation gain on the fair value assessment of investment in GF
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2010, in conjunction with the deconsolidation of the results of operations of GF, the Company began accounting for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. The equity in net income (loss) of investee primarily consists of the Company's proportionate share of GF's losses for the period based on the Company's ownership percentage of GF's Class A Preferred stock, the Company's portion of the non-cash accretion on GF's Class B Preferred stock, the elimination of intercompany profit, reflecting the mark-up on inventory that remains on the Company's balance sheet at the end of the period, the amortization of basis differences identified from the purchase price allocation process based on the fair value of GF upon deconsolidation, and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of the Company's ownership interest as a result of capital infusions into GF by ATIC. The Company excluded this item from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2010 and for fiscal 2010, because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF.
Equity in net income (loss) of investee
: The Company's former Foundry segment included the operating results attributable to the front end wafer manufacturing operations and related activities, which included the operating results of GF from March 2, 2009 through December 26, 2009. Intersegment Eliminations consisted of eliminations of revenues, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between the AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. The Company excluded the Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and fiscal 2009, because the Company believes that the exclusion of this activity enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations
: These two items relate to GF, the operating results of which were included in the Company's Foundry segment from March 2, 2009 through December 26, 2009. The net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest represents the allocation of the operating results to the noncontrolling partner of GF, whereas the Class B preferred accretion represents the guaranteed rate of return that the noncontrolling partner earns on its ownership of GF Class B preferred stock. The Company excluded these items from the Company's non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items and GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2009 because the Company believes that the exclusion of these items enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest and Class B preferred accretion
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These expenses included the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: On December 22, 2010, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with a third party. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company will receive an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes.The Company recorded a gain of $283 million in connection with this agreement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010. On November 11, 2009, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Intel Corp. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Intel paid the Company $1.25 billion in December 2009 and the Company recorded a $1.242 billion gain, net of certain expenses, in connection with this agreement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and fiscal 2009. Also in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a $25 million gain from a class action legal settlement with DRAM manufacturers related to DRAM pricing. The Company excluded these gains from the Company's GAAP net income (loss), and the gains related to the legal settlement in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and the Intel settlement from the Company's GAAP operating income (loss) because they are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain from legal settlements
On December 22, 2010, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with a third party. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company will receive an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes. The Company recorded a $47 million tax provision related to this legal settlement. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Income tax related to legal settlement:
: Restructuring charges are attributable to a restructuring plan implemented by the Company during fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 to reduce its breakeven point. These charges represent primarily severance and costs related to the continuation of certain employee benefits, contract or program termination costs, asset impairments and exit costs for facility site consolidations and closures. Restructuring reversals represent the amount that the Company no longer expects to pay for its estimated restructuring accrual based on its assessment of the latest available facts and circumstances. The Company excluded the effect of the restructuring reversals from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for fiscal 2010, and the effect of restructuring charges from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for fiscal 2009 because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges and reversals
: In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company recognized gain from the sale of certain of its marketable securities and an earn-out gain from an earlier sale of one of its investments. The Company excluded the effect of this item from its GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. In the second fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company sold a portion of its marketable securities and recognized a gain on the sale. The Company excluded the effect of the gains in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of 2010 from its GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Investment gain
: This represents the net gain or loss that the Company recognized during the applicable period from its partial repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness. During the third fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $800 million face value of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 resulting in a loss of $24 million. During fiscal 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $1,016 million face value of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 resulting in a loss of $24 million. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company repurchased $390 million face value of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2012 and also repurchased $1 billion of its 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 resulting in a net loss of $11 million. During fiscal 2009, the Company redeemed an aggregate of $1,749 million face value of debt, resulting in an aggregate gain on debt redemption of $169 million. The Company excluded these items from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for all periods presented because they are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain (loss) on debt redemption
: As part of the Company's strategy of evaluating the viability of its non-core business, the Company determined that its DTV business unit was not directly aligned with its computing and graphics opportunities. Therefore, the Company decided to divest this business unit and classify it as discontinued operations in the financial statements presented. In the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2009, the Company excluded a charge, primarily related to severance, from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss from discontinued operations
: In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company recorded an incremental write-down of inventory of $227 million due to a weak economic outlook. In the first, second and third fiscal quarters of 2009, the Company sold a significant portion of this inventory. The Company excluded this activity from the Company's GAAP net income (loss), GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2009 because the Company believes that the exclusion of this activity enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Gross margin benefit from the sale of inventory written-down in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008
: The Company incurred certain costs to execute its asset smart strategy to form GF. The Company excluded the effect of these costs from GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for fiscal 2009 because these costs are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
AMD Product Company formation costs associated with GF
: During the first fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an incremental tax provision related to the formation of GF from the write-off of deferred tax assets resulting from the formation of GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2009 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Incremental tax provision related to formation of GF
For fiscal 2009the Company incurred certain investment-related impairments and gains. The Company excluded the effect of these items from its GAAP net income (loss) because it is not indicative of ongoing performance
Investment Net Charges:
,
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company completed the sale of certain technology assets, intellectual property and resources of its Handheld business unit to Qualcomm for $65 million in cash. The Company excluded this gain from GAAP net income (loss) for fiscal 2009 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain on sale of certain Handheld assets
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company included an adjustment related to the legal settlement; for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with Intel and for Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations operating loss; for fiscal 2010, the Company included adjustments related to its legal settlement during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and for certain restructuring reversals; and for fiscal 2009, the Company included adjustments related to its legal settlement with Intel, Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations operating loss, certain restructuring charges and GF formation costs.
The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sell to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted Free Cash Flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. In January 2011, the Company notified the IBM Parties that it intends to terminate these supplier agreements. The effective date of the termination will be in February 2011, and the Company expects to transition away from making the adjustment for the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. As a result, as of the third quarter of 2011, free cash flow will be calculated traditionally in accordance with industry standard.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
 
 
2010 Annual Results
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010 of $1.65 billion, net income of $375 million, or $0.50 per share, and operating income of $413 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $106 million, or $0.14 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $141 million. The non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP operating income primarily excluded a net of tax gain of $236 million, and a pre-tax gain of $283 million, respectively, that the company recognized related to a patent license and legal settlement.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Jan. 20, 2011 
AMD
For the year ended December 25, 2010, AMD reported revenue of $6.49 billion, net income of $471 million, or $0.64 per share, and operating income of $848 million. Full year non-GAAP net income was $360 million, or $0.49 per share, and operating income was $553 million.
"AMD enters 2011 with significant momentum, amplified by the successful launch of our first Fusion APUs," said Thomas Seifert, CFO and Interim CEO. "I am confident we can drive profitable growth based on the strength of new products we will bring to market. Our customers recognize that Fusion APUs are at the core of delivering the world's most vivid digital experiences."
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statement is based on current expectations. The following statement is forward looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects first quarter of 2011 revenue to be flat to slightly down sequentially.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its fourth quarter and annual financial results. AMD will provide a real time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the Investor Relations page of its Web site at AMD. The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to AMD Common stockholders to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
1,3
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income (Loss)
1,3
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
1,3
 
 
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its ground-breaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs). AMD's graphics and computing technologies power a variety of devices including PCs, game consoles and the powerful computers that drive the Internet and businesses. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its first quarter 2011 revenue and its 2011 goals, including profitable growth and the timing of the launch and ramp of new products and technologies and the features of these products as well as the timing of the launch of our customers' products that are based on our products, and demand for the Company's products, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected revenue in the first quarter of 2011 and beyond; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; manufacturing or other costs may exceed the company's expectations; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2010.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron and combinations thereof, and ATI, the ATI logo, and Radeon are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
AMD NON-GAAP AND RECONCILIATIONS TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(1)
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
(7)
Reconciliation of select balance sheet items
 
(8)
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation***
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
A reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com
Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
 
 
2010 Annual Results
 
 
 
 
Q4 2010 Commentary
was $1.65 billion, up 2% compared to the third quarter of 2010 and flat compared to the same period a year ago.
Revenue
The quarter-over-quarter increase was mainly due to:
 
 
 
was 45%, down 1 percentage point from the prior quarter mainly due to:
Gross margin
 
 
 
 
 
r602 million, slightly less than the guided $610 million, and within our target model for 2010, as disclosed at AMD's 2010 Financial Analyst Day.
Operating Expenses
we
e $
 
 
was $141 million, which excludes the impact of a $283 million gain from a legal settlement and amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Non-GAAP operating income
was $106 million, which primarily excludes a net favorable impact of $236 million, related to the legal settlement, net of tax impact, referenced above and the equity income impact of AMD's investment in GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF).
Non-GAAP Net Income
 
was 14 cents in the fourth quarter, calculated using 734 million fully diluted shares. (The shares used in AMD's fourth quarter GAAP EPS calculation is 758 million on a fully diluted basis. The GAAP diluted share count is high due to the inclusion of the 5.75% convertible common shares which were dilutive to fourth quarter EPS.)
Non-GAAP diluted EPS
was $241 million, down $4 million from the prior quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q4 2010 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.22 billion, flat compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
was $91 million, down $73 million due to lower microprocessor ASP.
Computing Solutions Operating Income
Q4 2010 Segment Results  Graphics
was $424 million, up 9% compared to the third quarter of 2010 mainly due to:
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
 
 
was $68 million, up $67 million from the third quarter of 2010 mainly due to higher game console revenue and higher GPU ASP.
Graphics segment Operating Income
Balance Sheet
at the end of the quarter was $1.79 billion, up $63 million compared to the end of the third quarter of 2010.
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance
at the end of the quarter was $968 million, up $203 million compared to the end of the third quarter of 2010, primarily due to high volume of sales in the last month of the quarter, including the successful launch of our new GPU products.
Accounts Receivable
was $632 million exiting the quarter.
Inventory
as of the end of the quarter was $2.2 billion.
Long term debt
was $11 million, down $80 million from the third quarter of 2010 due to lower non-GAAP net cash provided by operating activities.
Non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow
 
 
2010 Commentary
We executed well to our 2010 business model and exceeded many targets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010 was a year of records:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially from current expectations.
Q1 2011:
 
 
 
 
2011 guidance (as presented at AMD's Financial Analyst Day, November 9, 2010):
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information, contact:
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Irmina Blaszczyk
408-749-3398
irmina.blaszczyk@amd.com
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including for non-GAAP net income (loss) excluding GF/Foundry segment related items, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance.
Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition: for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company included an adjustment related to its legal settlement; for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with Intel and for Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations operating loss; for fiscal 2010, the Company included adjustments related to its legal settlement in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and for certain restructuring reversals; and for fiscal 2009, the Company included adjustments related to its legal settlement with Intel, Foundry segment and Intersegment Eliminations operating loss, certain restructuring charges and GF formation costs. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
 
 
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries, (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sell to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under U.S. GAAP, the Company classifies funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds are classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor pays the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduces the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company does not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment is never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company is determined by adjusting GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount is then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under U.S. GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP Adjusted Free Cash Flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
 
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation:
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to AMD Common stockholders to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income (Loss)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
 
 
 
AMD reconciliation of GAAP operating income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the first quarter of 2011, including our first quarter 2011 revenue, operating expenses and tax, our 2011 financial targets, including gross margin, R&D, SG&A, capital expenditures and profitability on an operating income level and the impact of the termination of our receivable funding arrangement with IBM Credit, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected financial results in the first quarter of 2011 and beyond; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; manufacturing or other costs may exceed the company's expectations; and the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2010.
 


