FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20120719164100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On July 19, 2012, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party and the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to the limited waiver of exclusivity from GLOBALFOUNDRIES ("GF"), the amortization of acquired intangible assets, net restructuring charges, costs related to the acquisition of SeaMicro, Inc. ("SeaMicro"), and the tax benefit related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party and the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, net restructuring charges and costs related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating expenses for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating expenses for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets, net restructuring charges and costs related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
To derive non-GAAP operating expenses for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: In the second fiscal quarter of 2012, management determined that it was probable a settlement would be reached with a third party and that the amount of the settlement was estimable. As a result, the Company recorded the estimated settlement amount of $5 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2012 as a legal settlement. This amount remained accrued as of June 30, 2012. The Company excluded this charge from its GAAP net income, GAAP earnings per share, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Legal settlement
: Pursuant to the second amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2012 between the Company and GF, the Company was granted certain rights to contract with another wafer foundry supplier with respect to specified products for a specified period. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $425 million in cash and transferred to GF all of the capital stock of GF that the Company owned, which had a carrying and fair value of $278 million. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $703 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP loss per share, GAAP operating loss and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because the Company believes it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Limited waiver of exclusivity from GF
: Amortization of acquired intangible assets represents amortization expenses of acquired identifiable intangible assets in connection with the ATI Technologies and SeaMicro acquisitions. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss), GAAP earnings (loss) per share, GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP operating expenses for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to strengthen the Company's competitive positioning, implement a more competitive cost structure and conduct a workforce rebalancing to better address faster growing market segments. As a result of this restructuring plan, the Company incurred restructuring charges during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and during the first fiscal quarter of 2012 primarily related to severance and costs related to the continuation of certain employee benefits, contract or program termination cost, and asset impairments. The Company excluded these restructuring charges from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP loss per share, GAAP operating loss and GAAP operating expenses for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges, net
: In March 2012, the Company acquired SeaMicro, a privately held company that develops and sells energy-efficient, high-bandwidth microservers. The Company incurred certain costs related to this acquisition, which primarily consisted of advisory and other professional service fees. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP loss per share, GAAP operating loss and GAAP operating expenses for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
SeaMicro acquisition costs
In addition to the above non-GAAP financial measures, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the second fiscal quarter of 2012 and the six months ended June 30, 2012, the Company included an adjustment related to a legal settlement with a third party; for the first fiscal quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012, the Company included adjustments for the charge related to the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF, net restructuring charges, and costs related to the SeaMicro
acquisition; and for the six months ended July 2, 2011, the Company included adjustments related to a payment to GF and a legal settlement with a third party. The payment to GF occurred in the first fiscal quarter of 2011 when the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF which do not benefit the Company. Also in the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $5 million to cost of sales related to a legal settlement. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulted in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was not reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, as of the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices relating to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes quarterly adjustments for distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Q2 2012 Results
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the second quarter of 2012 of $1.41 billion, net income of $37 million, or $0.05 per share, and operating income of $77 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $46 million, or $0.06 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $86 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  July 19, 2012 
AMD
"Overall weakness in the global economy, softer consumer spending and lower channel demand for our desktop processors in China and Europe made the closing weeks of the quarter challenging," said Rory Read, AMD president and CEO. "We are taking definitive steps to improve our performance and correct the issues within our control as we expect headwinds will continue in the third quarter as the industry sets a new baseline. We remain optimistic about our core businesses as well as future opportunities with our competitively differentiated next-generation Accelerated Processor Units (APUs). Our recently launched Trinity APU continues to gain traction with customers. We are committed to driving profitable growth."
 
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to decrease 1 percent, plus or minus 3 percent, sequentially for the third quarter of 2012.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its second quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Expenses
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
1
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA
1
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
1
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its third quarter of 2012 revenue, demand for its products, its future growth and ability to deliver sustained success, the timing of future products that incorporate the company's products and the features of new products and economic conditions in the third quarter, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes, "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," "plans," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market at mature yields on a timely basis; that the company's third party foundry suppliers will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; the company's requirements for wafers are less than the fixed number of wafers that it agreed to purchase from GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) in 2012 or GF encounters problems that significantly reduce the number of functional die the company receives from each wafer; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in the market growth and demand for its products and technologies in light of the product mix that the company may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; that the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on the company's sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
1
In this press release, in addition to GAAP financial results, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments as presented in the tables in this press release. The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance. These items are defined in the footnotes to the selected corporate data tables provided at the end of this press release. The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables. Refer to corresponding tables at the end of this press release for additional AMD data.
2
Up to 12 hours of battery life for Trinity: Based on testing and calculations by AMD Performance Labs, the 2012 AMD A-Series platform enables 740 min./12:20 hours of Windows Idle while the 2011 AMD A-Series platform enables 663 min./11:03 hours of Windows Idle. Battery life calculations based on a 6 cell Li-Ion 62.16Whr battery pack at 98% utilization. AMD defines "all-day" battery life as 8+ hours of battery life in Windows Idle.
3
Twice the performance-per-watt: Testing performed by AMD Performance Labs. The score for the 2012 AMD A6-4455M (ULV-17w) on the "Pumori" reference design for PC Mark Vantage Overall benchmark was 4300 while the 2011 AMD A6-3400M (35w) on the "Torpedo" reference design scores 4545. The 3DMark Vantage Performance score for the same configurations was 2012 AMD A6-4455M (ULV) 2355 and the 2011 AMD A6-3400M scored 2292.
4
Based on testing performed by AMD Performance Labs. All battery life calculations are based on a 62.5 Whr battery pack at 98% utilization. System power testing shows a calculated battery life for the AMD E2-1800 in a Windows idle state to reach 670 minutes.
5
In tests by AMD as of May 22, 2012 on single-GPU graphics cards, the AMD Radeon HD 7970 GHz Edition showed higher average performance than the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 680 in the following games/apps: Formula 1 2010, Civilization V, StarCraft II, Just Cause 2, Unigine Heaven, Left 4 Dead 2, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, DiRT 3, The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena, Crysis Warhead, Metro 2033 (4xAA), and Hard Reset (MLAA). All applications were evaluated at 2560x1600 with 8xAA and 16xAF unless otherwise noted. System configuration: Intel Core i7-3960X (3.33GHz), MSI X79A-GD65, 16GB DDR3-1600 and Windows 7 x64. AMD Radeon HD 7970 GHz Edition evaluated with AMD Catalyst 8.973. NVIDIA GeForce GTX 680 evaluated with NVIDIA ForceWare 301.10 WHQL.
6
The GCN Architecture and its associated features (PCI Express 3.0, AMD ZeroCore Power technology, DDM Audio, and 28nm production) are exclusive to the AMD Radeon HD 7900, HD 7800 and HD 7700 Series.
7
The GCN Architecture and its associated features (AMD Enduro, AMD ZeroCore Power technology, DDM Audio, and 28nm production) are exclusive to the AMD Radeon HD 7700M, HD 7800M and HD 7900M Series Graphics.
 
 
 
8
AMD Enduro technology requires either an AMD "A" series or "E" series APU or an Intel processor, plus an AMD Radeon HD 7000M series discrete graphics configuration and is available on Windows 7 Professional, Windows 7 Ultimate, Windows 7 Home Premium, and/or Windows 7 Home Basic OS. Linux OS supports manual switching which requires restart of X-Server to switch between graphics solutions. Not all AMD Radeon HD 7000M series GPU features and capabilities may be supported on all AMD Enduro technology-enabled components or systems  always check with your component or system manufacturer for specific mode capabilities and supported technologies.
9
AMD Power Management technologies (e.g. AMD ZeroCore Power technology, AMD Enduro technology and AMD PowerPlay technology) are a family of technologies, offered by certain AMD Radeon products, which are designed to intelligently reduce or eliminate GPU power consumption in response to certain GPU load conditions. Not all products feature all technologies  check with your component or system manufacturer for specific model capabilities.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
Second Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
 
Q2 2012 Commentary
was $1.41 billion, down 11% sequentially. Sequential revenue decline in the Computing Solutions segment of 13% was driven primarily by lower channel sales in China and Europe as well as a weaker consumer buying environment impacting sales to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Graphics segment revenue was down 4% sequentially in a seasonally down quarter.
Revenue
was 46%, flat sequentially.
Non-GAAP gross margin
were $561 million. were $557 million, 8% less than prior guidance of approximately $605 million primarily due to lower bonus accruals and discretionary spending cost controls late in the quarter.
Operating expenses
Non-GAAP operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was $46 million and was $86 million.
Non-GAAP net income
non-GAAP operating income
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP operating income we excluded the impact of:
 
 
was $43 million, flat compared to the prior quarter.
Interest expense
was a net credit of $6 million in the quarter, compared to $32 million in the prior quarter. The difference was primarily a one-time tax benefit of $36 million
Tax provision
2
in the prior quarter related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
was $0.06, calculated using 755 million fully diluted shares.
Non-GAAP EPS
was $173 million, down $48 million from the prior quarter due to lower non-GAAP operating income which resulted from lower revenue in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q2 2012 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.05 billion, down 13% sequentially driven primarily by lower channel sales in China and Europe as well as a weaker consumer buying environment impacting sales to OEMs.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
 
 
Shipments of AMD's 2nd-Generation A-Series APU, codenamed "Trinity" more than doubled in the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2012.
was $82 million, down $42 million from the previous quarter, primarily due to lower revenue.
Computing Solutions operating income
 
 
 
Q2 2012 Segment Results  Graphics
was $367 million, seasonally down 4% compared to the prior quarter.
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
was $31 million, down $3 million from the prior quarter primarily due to the seasonal decline in revenue.
Graphics segment operating income
Balance Sheet
C were $1.76 billion as of the end of Q2 2012 compared with $1.71 billion as of the end of Q1 2012. We made a $50 million cash payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) related to the 28 nanometer (nm) product limited waiver of exclusivity, as provided in the 2012 amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA). The remaining balance of payments related to the waiver is $225 million which will be paid by the end of the first quarter of 2013.
ash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including long term marketable securities
at the end of the quarter was $744 million, down $218 million compared to the end of Q1 2012 due to the decrease in net revenue for the quarter.
Accounts Receivable
was $833 million exiting the quarter, up $248 million from the prior quarter primarily due to lower sales in the quarter and in preparation for previously anticipated demand in the second half of 2012. The inventory build consists primarily of our latest generation of products.
Inventory
line item on the Balance Sheet is new as of Q1 2012, and includes all amounts due to GF by AMD. Payables to GF increased $101 million in Q2 2012 due to a $151 million increase of wafer purchases from GF offset by the $50 million payment to GF related to the 28 nanometer (nm) product limited waiver of exclusivity.
Payable to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF)
as of the end of the quarter was unchanged at $2.02 billion.
Debt
was $81 million. was $42 million.
Net cash provided by operations
Non-GAAP free cash flow
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in AMD's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
Q3 2012 Outlook:
 
 
 
For more information, contact:
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
1. Legal Settlement: In the second quarter of 2012 management determined that it was probable a settlement would be reached with a third party and that the amount of the settlement was estimable. As a result, the Company recorded the estimated settlement amount of $5 million in the second quarter of 2012 as a legal settlement. This amount remained accrued as of June 30, 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP earnings per share, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for the second quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
2. Tax Benefit related to SeaMicro acquisition: Since the acquisition of SeaMicro was treated as a stock purchase for income tax purposes, tax amortization of the acquired identifiable intangible assets is not allowed. As a result, the Company was required to establish a deferred tax liability of approximately $36 million for the book/tax difference. This reduced the Company's existing valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset by providing an additional source of future taxable income. The reduction in valuation allowance resulted in a discrete income tax provision benefit of approximately $36 million in the first quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss for the first quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company presents "Adjusted EBITDA" as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the second quarter of 2012, the Company included an adjustment for a legal settlement with a third party, and for the first quarter of 2012 the Company included an adjustment for the limited waiver of exclusivity from GLOBALFOUNDRIES, net restructuring charges and costs related to acquisition of SeaMicro Inc. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulted in a noncash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was not reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the
 
 
 
Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, as of the end of the second quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices relating to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes quarterly adjustments for distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the third quarter of 2012, including our third quarter 2012 revenue, gross margin, and operating expenses, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates," "projects," "would," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this document are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this document and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's current plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; that its third party wafer foundry suppliers will be unable to transition the company's products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; the company's requirements for wafers are less than the fixed number of wafers that it agreed to purchase from GF in 2012 or GF encounters problems that significantly reduce the number of functional die the company receives from each wafer; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on the company's sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
 


