FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20120829083058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Company's Board of Directors appointed John R. Harding as a director, effective August 28, 2012. In addition, Mr. Harding was appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Harding will receive similar compensation as the Company provides to non-employee directors, which is described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2012. On August 28, 2012, Mr. Harding was granted 30,080 restricted stock units, which vest as to 100% and become fully exercisable on the one-year anniversary of the grant date.
Mr. Harding serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors of eSilicon Corporation, which following our acquisition of SeaMicro, Inc., became one of our suppliers.
There was no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Harding and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Harding was selected as a director.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Harding's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Public Relations:
Mike Silverman
AMD Public Relations
(512) 602-3781
michael.silverman@amd.com
Investor Relations:
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
(408) 749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
 (NYSE: AMD) announced today that Jack Harding has been appointed to the company's . Harding currently serves as president and chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors of eSilicon Corporation, a privately-held semiconductor design and manufacturing services provider he co-founded. designs and manufactures complex, custom chips for a broad and growing portfolio of large and small firms. Harding brings more than 25 years of management experience in the semiconductor industry to the board, especially in the area of and system on a chip (SoC) design, productization and manufacturing.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  August 29, 2012 
AMD
board of directors
eSilicon
ASIC
"Jack's wealth of industry experience and familiarity with evolving industry trends make him a perfect choice to join the AMD board," said Bruce Claflin, chairman, AMD Board of Directors. "As AMD establishes itself as a more nimble, flexible semiconductor design innovator, Jack's operational experience, strategic expertise and business acumen for bringing SoC and custom integrated circuit solutions to market should add tremendous value for AMD's future business."
"I'm delighted to join AMD's board," said Harding. "AMD is a world-class company and I look forward to being part of its fine team."
Before co-founding eSilicon, Harding served as president and chief executive officer and member of the board of directors of , which acquired his former employer, Cooper & Chyan Technology, Inc. He has held a variety of senior management positions at Zycad Corporation, and his career includes positions with TXL and IBM Corporation.
Cadence Design Systems
Harding also serves on the board of directors of and the . He has also served as a member of the steering committee at the and is a former committee member for Software, Growth, and the Future of the U.S. Economy. He holds a bachelor of arts in Chemistry and Economics from Drew University, and attended the Stern School of Business at New York University.
RF Micro Devices
Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA)
U.S. Council on Competitiveness
National Academies
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


