FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20120124163803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On January 24, 2012, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 and for the fiscal year then ended in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2011.
During fiscal 2010, the Company accounted for its investment in GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. ("GF") under the equity method of accounting. During fiscal 2011, the Company accounted for its investment in GF under the cost method of accounting. To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income excluding GF related items, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a non-cash impairment charge related to its investment in GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a loss related to its repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness, net restructuring charges and a loss from discontinued operations.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a loss related to its repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a gain from a legal settlement, income tax related to a legal settlement and gain on investment sale.
To derive non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2011, the Company excluded the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net, a payment to GF, a non-cash impairment charge related to its investment in GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a charge related to a legal settlement, a loss related to its repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness, net restructuring charges and a loss from discontinued operations.
To derive non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit due to the deconsolidation of GF, the deconsolidation gain based on the fair value assessment of its investment in GF, the equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a gain from a legal settlement, income tax related to a legal settlement, the gain on investment sale, a loss related to its repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness and certain restructuring reversals.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets. For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company further excluded certain restructuring charges and reversals, net.
To derive non-GAAP operating income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a gain from a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for fiscal 2011, the Company excluded a payment to GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a charge related to a legal settlement and certain restructuring charges and reversals, net.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit due the deconsolidation of GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a gain from a legal settlement and certain restructuring reversals.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for fiscal 2011, the Company excluded a payment to GF and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for fiscal 2010, the Company excluded the gross margin benefit due to the deconsolidation of GF.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: The deconsolidation of GF's results of operations from the Company's results of operations resulted in incremental gross margin benefit in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 when compared to AMD Product Company in prior periods. "AMD Product Company" historically referred to the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. on a stand-alone basis, which were derived by excluding from the Company's consolidated operating results the operating results of the Company's former Foundry segment and certain Intersegment Eliminations consisting of revenues, cost of sales, and profits on inventory between AMD Product Company and the Foundry segment. The incremental gross margin benefit was partially attributable to the elimination of the mark-up charged by GF from the value of inventory as of the beginning of the first fiscal quarter of 2010. In addition, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company updated its inventory standard costs process with respect to inventory purchased from GF. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance with prior periods.
Gross margin benefit due to the deconsolidation of GF
: Effective as of the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company deconsolidated the results of operations of GF and through December 25, 2010, accounted for its investment in GF under the equity method of accounting. Under the accounting guidelines pertaining to deconsolidation, the Company was required to record its opening investment in GF at fair value as of the date of deconsolidation. The difference between this initial fair value of the investment in GF and the net carrying book value was recognized as a gain or loss in earnings. During the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company completed a valuation analysis to determine the initial fair value of its investment in GF. Based on this analysis, in the first fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company recognized a non-cash, one-time gain related to the deconsolidation of approximately $325 million. The Company excluded this gain from the Company's GAAP net income for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Deconsolidation gain on the fair value assessment of investment in GF
: The equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net, primarily consists of the Company's proportionate share of GF's losses for the period based on the Company's ownership percentage of GF's Class A Preferred Shares and, to the extent applicable, the gain or loss on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of capital infusions into GF by ATIC. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for fiscal 2011, the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, and fiscal 2010, because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF and GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
Equity income (loss) and dilution gain in investee, net
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF, which did not benefit the Company. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income, and GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance with prior periods.
Payment to GF
: During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $209 million. The impairment charge was recorded based on the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the investment as of December 31, 2011. The fair value of the Company's GF investment was determined by a valuation analysis of GF's Class A Preferred Shares, which the Company performed in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011. The valuation was performed in the fourth quarter as the Company reviewed indications of impairment, including revised financial projections which the Company received from GF. As these are long range projections, the Company concluded the decline in fair value is other than temporary. The Company excluded this charge from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and fiscal 2011 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the impact of GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
Impairment of investment in GF
: The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the ATI acquisition, which it would not have otherwise incurred and which the Company believes are not indicative of ongoing performance. These expenses included the amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $5 million to cost of sales related to a legal settlement. In addition, in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company entered into a Patent License and Settlement Agreement with Samsung Electronics Co.. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company received an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes. The Company recorded a gain of $283 million in connection with this agreement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. The Company excluded the $5 million charge from its GAAP net income, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for fiscal 2011, and the $283 million gain from its GAAP net income and GAAP operating income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010 because they are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Legal settlement:
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company entered into a Patent License and Settlement Agreement with Samsung Electronics Co.. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the Company received an aggregate of $283 million, less applicable withholding taxes. The Company recorded a $47 million tax provision in connection with this agreement in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and for fiscal 2010 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Income tax related to legal settlement:
During fiscal 2010, the Company sold a portion of its marketable securities and recognized gains on these sales. The Company excluded the effect of these gains from its GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010 because they are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Gain on investment sale:
: Loss on debt repurchase represents the net loss that the Company recognized during the applicable period from its partial repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $50 million principal amount of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 ("6.00% Notes") resulting in a loss of $1 million. During the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $150 million principal amount of its 6.00% Notes resulting in a loss of $5 million. During fiscal 2010, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $1,016 million principal amount of its 6.00% Notes resulting in a loss of $24 million. The Company excluded these losses from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2011, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 because they are is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss on debt repurchase
: During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to strengthen the Company's competitive positioning, implement a more competitive cost structure and conduct a workforce rebalancing to better address faster growing market segments. As a result of this restructuring plan, the Company incurred a restructuring charge during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 primarily related to severance and costs related to the continuation of certain employee benefits, contract or program termination cost and, asset impairments. The Company excluded these restructuring charges and reversals from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and for fiscal 2011 and 2010 because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring (charges) and reversals, net
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company sold its Digital Television business unit to Broadcom Corporation. The Company had classified its Digital Television unit as discontinued operations at the time it decided to divest the business unit. Pursuant to the asset sale agreement, Broadcom had three years after the closing date to obtain reimbursement from the Company for a portion of any severance costs that Broadcom incurred during this time period to the extent the severance costs related to any of the Company's former employees. The loss from discontinued operations represents payments to Broadcom in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011. The Company excluded this loss from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and fiscal 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss from discontinued operations:
In addition, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the fourth quarter of 2011 and fiscal 2011, the Company included an adjustment for restructuring charges and reversals, net; for the fourth quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010, the Company also included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with Samsung; and for fiscal 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related to a payment to GF.
The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, during the third quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices related to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the fiscal third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes any adjustments for distributor payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Q4 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
2011 Annual Results
 
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $1.69 billion, net loss of $177 million, or $0.24 per share, and operating income of $71 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $138 million, or $0.19 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $172 million. Fourth quarter non-GAAP net income excludes an impairment of AMD's investment in GLOBALFOUNDRIES of $209 million, restructuring charges of $98 million, the loss from discontinued operations of $4 million, the amortization of acquired intangible assets of $3 million and a loss on debt repurchase of $1 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif. 
Jan
.
24
, 201
2
AMD
For the year ended December 31, 2011, AMD reported revenue of $6.57 billion, net income of $491 million, or $0.66 per share, and operating income of $368 million. Full year non-GAAP net income was $374 million, or $0.50 per share, and non-GAAP operating income was $524 million.
"AMD shipped more than 30 million APU's in 2011, resulting in record annual notebook revenue," said Rory Read, AMD president and CEO. "The unmatched combination of computing and graphics capabilities in our low-power Brazos' platform has made it our fastest ramping platform ever, paving the way for continued growth in key segments and geographies. Our server business has re-gained momentum, delivering two consecutive quarters of strong sequential growth.
"We continued optimizing our financial model in 2011, consistently delivering operating income and creating the foundation for sustained success. We begin 2012 clear on our priorities and opportunities. We are building an AMD that consistently delivers on its commitments."
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to decrease eight percent, plus or minus three percent, sequentially for the first quarter of 2012.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its fourth quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
1
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
1
 
 
 
 
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused ondriving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its first quarter 2012 revenue, its future growth in key segments and geographies, the momentum of its server business, its ability to deliver sustained success, the timing of future products that incorporate the company's products, and the company's restructuring plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011, the anticipated operational savings resulting from the restructuring and the company's plans for reinvesting these savings, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2011.
 
 
 
 
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, and are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
 
 
#2112006
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The Company presents "Adjusted EBITDA" as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the fourth quarter of 2011 and fiscal 2011, the Company included an adjustment for restructuring charges and reversals, net; for the fourth quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010, the Company also included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with Samsung; and for fiscal 2011, the Company included an adjustment related to a payment to GF. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
** Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a noncash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, during the third quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices related to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and the Company did not make any adjustments for distributor payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.

Exhibit 99.2
 
A reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
2011 Annual Results
 
 
 
 
2011 Commentary
AMD executed well to our 2011 financial model, while strengthening our balance sheet and implementing efficiencies across the company's operations.
2011 highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, AMD achieved several notable records and accomplishments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Results
 
 
 
 
Q4 2011 Commentary
was $1.69 billion, flat sequentially. Sequential revenue growth in the Computing Solutions segment of 2% was offset by a 5% revenue decline in the Graphics segment.
Revenue
was 46%, up one percentage point quarter-over-quarter primarily due to a seasonal increase in game console revenue and improved GPU product mix.
Gross margin
were $601 million, less than guided primarily due to higher than expected operational savings associated with the restructuring plan and operational improvements implemented in the fourth quarter. We saw an immediate effect from these actions, reducing costs by $14 million and improving earnings per share by 2 cents in the quarter. We expect 2012 savings associated with the restructuring plan and additional operational efficiencies to be more than $200 million, which we expect to use primarily to fund future strategic growth initiatives.
Operating expenses
 
 
was $138 million and was $172 million.
Non-GAAP net income
non-GAAP operating income
To derive non-GAAP net income, we excluded the impact of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
To derive non-GAAP operating income, we excluded the impact of:
 
 
increased by $1 million compared to the prior quarter.
Interest expense
In total, we repurchased $200 million of the 6.00% Notes in 2011, which will result in approximately $3 million in quarterly interest savings moving forward.
was $0.19, calculated using 740 million fully diluted shares.
Non-GAAP EPS
was $260 million, up $21 million from the prior quarter due to higher non-GAAP operating income driven by improved gross margin and lower operating expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q4 2011 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.3 billion, up 2% sequentially driven by double digit growth in Server and Chipset revenue.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was $165 million, up $16 million from the previous quarter, primarily due to lower operating expenses and an increase in server units shipped.
Computing Solutions operating income
Q4 2011 Segment Results  Graphics
was $382 million, down 5% compared to the prior quarter mainly due to a decline in mobile GPU units shipments, partially offset by a seasonal increase in game console revenue.
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
was $27 million, up $15 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher game console revenue and higher GPU ASP.
Graphics segment operating income
Balance Sheet
at the end of the quarter was $1.91 billion, up $57 million compared to the end of the third quarter of 2011.
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including long term marketable securities,
at the end of the quarter was $919 million, up $11 million compared to the end of the third quarter of 2011.
Accounts Receivable
was $476 million exiting the quarter, down $64 million from the prior quarter due to a decline in GPU inventory driven by a transition to the newly launched 28nm products late in the quarter.
Inventory
as of the end of the quarter was $2.02 billion.
Debt
was $100 million.
Non-GAAP free cash flow
AMD's ownership in GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF)
AMD's ownership interest in GF on a fully diluted basis decreased to approximately 8.8% as of the conclusion of the fourth quarter.
AMD's investment balance in GF in Q4 2011 was reduced to $278 million from $486 million in Q3 2011. In Q4 2011, AMD recorded a non-cash impairment
1
charge of approximately $209 million on our investment in GF. The impairment charge was recorded based on the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the investment as of December 31, 2011.
 
 
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2011.
Q1 2012:
 
 
 
For more information, contact:
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Irmina Blaszczyk
408-749-3398
irmina.blaszczyk@amd.com
Notes
1. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $209 million on our investment in GF. The impairment charge was recorded based on the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the investment as of December 31, 2011. The fair value of our GF investment was determined by a valuation analysis of GF's Class A Preferred Shares, which we performed in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011. The valuation was performed in the fourth quarter as we reviewed indications of impairment, including revised financial projections which we received from GF. As these are long range projections, we concluded the decline in fair value is other than temporary.
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including for non-GAAP net income excluding GLOBALFOUDNRIES (GF) related items, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the fourth quarter of 2011 and fiscal 2011 the Company included an adjustment for restructuring charges and reversals, net; for the fourth quarter of 2010 and fiscal 2010, the Company also included an adjustment related to its legal settlement with Samsung; and for fiscal 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related to a payment to GF. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
Starting in the first quarter of 2010, the Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulting in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was never reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, during the third quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices related to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the fiscal third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes any adjustments for distributor payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
Non-GAAP Reconciliation:
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
 
AMD reconciliation of GAAP operating income to Adjusted EBITDA
 
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow reconciliation
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the first quarter of 2012, including our first quarter 2012 revenue, operating expenses and gross margin; our restructuring plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011, the anticipated operational savings resulting from the restructuring, implementation of efficiencies, and our plans for reinvesting these savings, future quarterly interest savings, and our ability to successfully conclude our negotiations with GLOBALFOUNDRIES with respect to an amendment to the wafer supply agreement, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities targeting the company's business will prevent attainment of the company's current plans; the company will be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes and mix required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; GLOBALFOUNDRIES will be unable to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will under-utilize its commitment with respect to GLOBALFOUNDRIES' microprocessor manufacturing facilities; the company will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way; global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen resulting in lower than currently expected demand; demand for computers and consumer electronics products and, in turn, demand for the company's products will be lower than currently expected; customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their demand for its products; the company will require additional funding and may not be able to raise funds on favorable terms or at all; there will be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; and the company will be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2011.
 


