FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20121018162656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On October 18, 2012, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2012 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Devinder Kumar, Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2012.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP loss per share for the Company for the third fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and net restructuring charges.
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party.
To derive non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and the loss on debt repurchase.
To derive non-GAAP operating loss for the Company for the third fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and net restructuring charges.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP operating expenses for the Company for the third fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and net restructuring charges.
To derive non-GAAP operating expenses for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012 and the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement with a third party.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
: During the third fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company incurred restructuring charges primarily related to severance and the continuation of certain employee benefits related to the termination of certain employees in the Company's back-end manufacturing facility in Singapore. The Company excluded these restructuring charges from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP loss per share, GAAP operating loss and GAAP operating expenses for the third fiscal quarter of 2012 because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges, net
: In the second fiscal quarter of 2012, management determined that it was probable a settlement would be reached with a third party and that the amount of the settlement was estimable. As a result, the Company
Legal settlement
recorded the estimated settlement amount of $5 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2012 as a legal settlement. This amount remained accrued as of June 30, 2012. The Company excluded this charge from its GAAP net income, GAAP earnings per share, GAAP operating income and GAAP gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
: During the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $150 million face value of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 resulting in a loss of $5 million. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for the third fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss on debt repurchase
: Amortization of acquired intangible assets represents amortization expenses of acquired identifiable intangible assets in connection with the Company's ATI Technologies and SeaMicro acquisitions. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss), GAAP earnings (loss) per share, GAAP operating income (loss) and GAAP operating expenses for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
In addition to the above non-GAAP financial measures, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. The Company determines its adjusted EBITDA by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company also included an adjustment related to a legal settlement with a third party; for the third fiscal quarter of 2012 and the nine months ended September 29, 2012, the Company also included an adjustment for net restructuring charges; for the nine months ended September 29, 2012, the Company also included adjustments for the limited waiver of exclusivity from GLOBALFOUNDRIES ("GF"), a legal settlement with a third party and costs related to acquisition of SeaMicro; for the nine months ended October 1, 2011, the Company included adjustments related to a payment to GF and a legal settlement with a third party. The payment to GF occurred in the first quarter of 2011 when the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF which do not benefit the Company. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulted in a noncash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was not reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, as of the end of the second quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices relating to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes quarterly adjustments for distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On October 18, 2012, the Company announced that it intends to implement a restructuring plan (the "Plan") to reduce operating expenses and better position the Company competitively. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Plan involves a workforce reduction of approximately 15% of the Company's global workforce who will be notified regarding the termination of their employment during the remainder of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 as well as site consolidations.
The Company currently estimates that it will record restructuring expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of approximately $80 million, substantially all of which is related to severance and costs of continuation of certain employee benefits.Of the total fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 restructuring expense, approximately $50 million will be cash expenditures in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, and $30 million will be future cash expenditures in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
The Company expects to take additional restructuring actions in the first half of fiscal 2013. The Company cannot currently estimate the amount or range of the charges associated with the Plan for the first half of fiscal 2013. However, the restructuring charge may be material. The Company intends to file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K within four business days after it makes a determination of such amount.
The Company believes that the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 will result in operational savings, primarily in operating expenses of approximately $20 million in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2012 and $190 million in fiscal 2013.
,
The Company expects that the restructuring plan will be materially completed in the first half of fiscal 2013.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD's restructuring plan, the timing of actions in connection with the plan, the timing for the completion of the plan and anticipated restructuring charges, cash expenditures and operational savings as a result of the implementation of the restructuring plan which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "would," "may," "expects," "believes," "plans," "intends," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this Current Report are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this Current Report and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market at mature yields on a timely basis; that the company's third party foundry suppliers will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; the company's requirements for wafers are less than the fixed number of wafers that it agreed to purchase from GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) in 2012 or GF encounters problems that significantly reduce the number of functional die the company receives from each wafer; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in the market growth and demand for its products and technologies in light of the product mix that the company may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; that the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not improve or will
,
worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on the company's sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Q3 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the third quarter of 2012 of $1.27 billion, a net loss of $157 million, or $0.21 per share, and an operating loss of $131 million. The company reported a non-GAAP net loss of $150 million, or $0.20 per share, and a non-GAAP operating loss of $124 million. AMD is also announcing a restructuring plan designed to reduce operating expenses and better position the company competitively.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  October 18, 2012 
AMD
"The PC industry is going through a period of very significant change that is impacting both the ecosystem and AMD," said Rory Read, AMD president and CEO. "It is clear that the trends we knew would re-shape the industry are happening at a much faster pace than we anticipated. As a result, we must accelerate our strategic initiatives to position AMD to take advantage of these shifts and put in place a lower cost business model. Our restructuring efforts are designed to simplify our product development cycles, reduce our breakeven point and enable us to fund differentiated product roadmaps and strategic breakaway opportunities."
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Restructuring Designed to Enhance Financial Results, Set New Revenue Breakeven Target
AMD's restructuring plan, a significant portion of which will be implemented in the fourth quarter of 2012, will include a workforce reduction and site consolidations.
AMD expects that the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 will result in operational savings, primarily in operating expenses, of approximately $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and approximately $190 million in 2013. The savings will be largely driven through a reduction of AMD's global workforce by approximately 15 percent, which is expected to be largely completed in the fourth quarter of 2012. The company currently estimates it will record a restructuring expense in the fourth quarter of 2012 of approximately $80 million in connection with these actions.
AMD is also putting in place a business model to break even at an operating income level of $1.3 billion of quarterly revenue. The company is targeting to achieve this by the end of the third quarter of 2013.
"Our restructuring efforts are decisive actions that position AMD to compete more effectively and improve our financial results," said Mr. Read. "Reducing our workforce is a difficult, but necessary, step to take advantage of the eventual market recovery and capitalize on growth opportunities for our products outside of the traditional PC market."
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
For the fourth quarter of 2012, AMD expects revenue to decrease 9 percent, plus or minus 4 percent, sequentially.
For additional details regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
 
 
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its third quarter financial results and provide more details with respect to today's restructuring announcement. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its fourth quarter of 2012 revenue, its targeted revenue breakeven point and the timing to attain its breakeven point, and its restructuring plan, including the timing of actions in connection with the plan, anticipated restructuring charges and operational savings, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes, "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," "plans," "projects," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this release are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this release and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market at mature yields on a timely basis; that the company's third party foundry suppliers will be unable to transition its products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; the company's requirements for wafers are less than the fixed number of wafers that it agreed to purchase from GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) in 2012 or GF encounters problems that significantly reduce the number of functional die the company receives from each wafer; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in the market growth and demand for its products and technologies in light of the product mix that the company may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; that the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on the company's sales or supply
 
 
chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
Third Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
Q3 2012 Commentary
was $1.27 billion, down 10% sequentially. Sequential revenue decline in the Computing Solutions segment of 11% was driven primarily by a weaker consumer buying environment impacting sales to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) as well as lower average selling prices (ASPs) across all geographies. Graphics segment revenue was down 7% sequentially due to lower unit shipments to OEMs partially offset by higher channel sales and royalties.
Revenue
was 31% primarily due to an inventory write-down of approximately $100 million due to lower than anticipated future demand for certain products. The write-down was comprised mainly of first generation A-Series APU products ("Llano") which adversely impacted gross margin by approximately 8 percentage points. Third quarter gross margin was also negatively impacted by weaker than expected demand, which contributed to lower ASPs for the company's microprocessor products and lower utilization of back-end manufacturing facilities.
Gross margin
were $523 million. were $516 million, 8% less than prior guidance of approximately $560 million primarily due to tight spending controls and lower bonus and commission accruals in the quarter.
Operating expenses
Non-GAAP operating expenses
 
 
 
 
was $150 million and was $124 million both of which include the aforementioned $100 million inventory write-down.
Non-GAAP net loss
non-GAAP operating loss
To derive non-GAAP net loss, non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP operating expenses we excluded the impact of:
 
 
was $44 million, flat compared to the prior quarter.
Interest expense
was $0 in the quarter, compared to tax benefit of $6 million in the prior quarter.
Tax provision
was $0.20, calculated using 745 million basic shares. Basic shares are used in the net loss calculation.
Non-GAAP loss per share
was negative $35 million, down $208 million from the prior quarter due to an operating loss which resulted from lower revenue in the quarter as well as the $100 million inventory write-down.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q3 2012 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $927 million, down 11% sequentially driven primarily by a weaker consumer buying environment impacting sales to OEMs as well as lower ASPs for microprocessor products across all geographies.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
 
 
Shipments of AMD's 2nd-Generation A-Series APU, codenamed "Trinity" almost doubled in the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012 and now represent over 30% of notebook shipments.
was $114 million, down $196 million from the previous quarter net income primarily due to lower revenue and the $100 million inventory write-down.
Computing Solutions operating loss
 
 
Q3 2012 Segment Results  Graphics
was $342 million, down 7% compared to the prior quarter.
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
was $18 million, down $13 million from the prior quarter primarily due to the decline in revenue.
Graphics segment operating income
Balance Sheet
were $1.48 billion as of the end of Q3 2012 compared with $1.76 billion as of the end of Q2 2012. Cash declined $279 million compared to the end of the previous quarter, which was primarily the result of cash used in operations.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
, including long term marketable securities
Given the reduced size of our current business the company is adjusting AMD's optimal cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance from $1.5 billion to approximately $1.1 billion.
at the end of the quarter was $683 million, down $61 million compared to the end of Q2 2012 due to the decrease in net revenue for the quarter.
Accounts Receivable
was $744 million exiting the quarter, down $89 million compared to the end of the second quarter due to an inventory write-down of approximately $100 million comprised primarily of Llano products. We wrote down inventory due to lower than anticipated future demand for certain products.
Inventory
line item on the Balance Sheet includes all amounts due to GF by AMD. AMD will make a $50 million cash payment to GF, related to the 28 nanometer (nm) product limited waiver of exclusivity, as provided in the 2012 amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) in the fourth quarter of 2012. The remaining balance of payments related to the waiver is $175 million which will be paid by December 31, 2012.
Payable to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF)
as of the end of the quarter was $2.04 billion. In the third quarter AMD repaid in full all of the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the Company's 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, or approximately $499 million, and issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% Senior Notes due 2022.
Debt
was $240 million. was negative $272 million.
Net cash used by operations
Non-GAAP free cash flow
 
 
Restructuring Plan and Operational Efficiency Initiatives
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in AMD's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
Q4 2012 Outlook:
 
 
For more information, contact:
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP earnings (loss) per share, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the commentary as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the third fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company included net restructuring charges, and for the second fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company included a charge of approximately $5 million related to a legal settlement with a third party. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP free cash flow in this commentary as a supplemental measure of its performance. Non-GAAP free cash flow for the Company was determined by subtracting capital expenditures from GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP free cash flow because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of this cash flow. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating activities. The Company has provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income (Loss)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Expenses
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA
 
Non-GAAP free cash flow reconciliation
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2012, including our fourth quarter 2012 revenue and operating expenses, anticipated future demand for our products, our optimal cash balance, our restructuring plan, the timing of actions in connection with the plan and anticipated restructuring charges and operational savings, our target revenue breakeven model and our ability to achieve this target by the third quarter of 2013, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates," "projects," "would," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this document are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this document and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's current plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; that its third party wafer foundry suppliers will be unable to transition the company's products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products; the company's requirements for wafers are less than the fixed number of wafers that it agreed to purchase from GF in 2012 or GF encounters problems that significantly reduce the number of functional die the company receives from each wafer; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on the company's sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
 


