FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20120419163225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, if such subsequent filing specifically references the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this report.
On April 19, 2012, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced its financial position and results of operations as of and for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012 in a press release that is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 is financial information and commentary by Thomas J. Seifert, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company regarding the Company's fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012.
To supplement the Company's financial results presented on a U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") basis, the Company's earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP gross margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare current and historical periods' operating results and that it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the limited waiver of exclusivity from GLOBALFOUNDRIES ("GF"), the amortization of acquired intangible assets, net restructuring charges, costs related to acquisition of SeaMicro, Inc. ("SeaMicro"), and the tax benefit related to acquisition of SeaMicro.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a non-cash impairment charge related to its investment in GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a loss related to its repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness, net restructuring charges and a loss from discontinued operations.
To derive non-GAAP net income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded dilution gain in investee, net, a payment to GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, net restructuring charges and costs related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets and net restructuring charges.
To derive non-GAAP operating income for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a payment to GF, the amortization of acquired intangible assets, and a charge related to a legal settlement.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company excluded the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF.
To derive non-GAAP gross margin for the Company for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company excluded a charge related to a legal settlement and a payment to GF.
Specifically, these non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following:
Pursuant to the second amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2012, between the Company and GF, the Company was granted certain rights to contract with another wafer foundry supplier with respect to specified products for a specified period. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $425 million in cash and transferred to GF all of the capital stock of GF that the Company owned, which had a carrying and fair value of $278 million. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time charge of $703 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP operating loss, and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because the Company believes it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Limited waiver of exclusivity from GF:
: During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $209 million. The impairment charge was recorded based on the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the investment as of December 31, 2011. The fair value of the Company's GF investment was determined by a valuation analysis of GF's Class A Preferred Shares, which the Company performed in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011. The valuation was performed in the fourth quarter as the Company reviewed indications of impairment, including revised financial projections which the Company received from GF. As these are long range projections, the Company concluded the decline in fair value was other than temporary. The Company excluded this charge from the Company's GAAP net loss for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the impact of GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
Impairment of investment in GF
: The dilution gain in investee, net, for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 consists of a non-cash gain on dilution of the Company's ownership interest in GF as a result of capital infusions into GF by Advanced Technology Investment Company LLC. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because the Company believes it is important for investors to have visibility into the Company's financial results excluding the financial results of GF and GF related items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing operating performance.
Dilution gain in investee, net
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company incurred a charge of $24 million in cost of sales related to a payment to GF in the form of cash and GF Class A Preferred Shares that the Company owned. This payment primarily related to certain manufacturing assets of GF, which do not benefit the Company. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income, GAAP operating income, and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Payment to GF
: Amortization of acquired intangible assets represents amortization expenses of acquired identifiable intangible assets in connection with the ATI Technologies Inc. and SeaMicro acquisitions. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net income (loss) and GAAP operating income (loss) for all periods presented in order to enable investors to better evaluate its current operating performance compared with prior periods and because these expenses are not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
: In the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $5 million to cost of sales related to a legal settlement. The Company excluded this charge from its GAAP net loss, GAAP operating loss and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Legal settlement
: Loss on debt repurchase represents the net loss that the Company recognized during the applicable period from its partial repurchase of certain outstanding indebtedness. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased an aggregate of $50 million principal amount of its 6.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 resulting in a loss of $1 million. The Company excluded this loss from the Company's GAAP net loss for the fourth fiscal quarters of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss on debt repurchase
: During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to strengthen the Company's competitive positioning, implement a more competitive cost structure and conduct a workforce rebalancing to better address faster growing market segments. As a result of this restructuring plan, the Company incurred a restructuring charges during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and during the first fiscal quarter of 2012 primarily related to severance and costs related to the continuation of certain employee benefits, contract or program termination cost and, asset impairments. The Company excluded these restructuring charges from the Company's GAAP net loss and GAAP operating income (loss) for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 and the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because they are not indicative of ongoing performance.
Restructuring charges, net
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, the Company sold its Digital Television business unit to Broadcom Corporation. The Company had classified its Digital Television unit as discontinued operations at the time it decided to divest the business unit. Pursuant to the asset sale agreement, Broadcom had three years after the closing date to obtain reimbursement from the Company for a portion of any severance costs that Broadcom incurred during this time period to the extent the severance costs related to any of the Company's former employees. The loss from discontinued operations represents payments to Broadcom in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011. The Company excluded this loss from the Company's GAAP net loss for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance.
Loss from discontinued operations:
: In March 2012, the Company acquired SeaMicro, a privately held company that develops and sells energy-efficient, high-bandwidth microservers. The Company incurred certain costs related to this acquisition, which primarily consisted of advisory and other professional service fees. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss and GAAP operating loss for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
SeaMicro acquisition costs
Since the acquisition of SeaMicro is treated as a stock purchase for income tax purposes, tax amortization of the acquired identifiable intangible assets is not allowed. As a result, the Company is required to establish a deferred tax liability of approximately $36 million for the book/tax difference. This reduced the Company's existing valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset by providing an additional source of future taxable income. The reduction in valuation allowance resulted in a discrete income tax provision benefit of approximately $36 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Tax Benefit related to SeaMicro acquisition:
In addition to the above non-GAAP financial measures, the Company presented "Adjusted EBITDA" in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income (loss) for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first fiscal quarter of 2012, the Company included an adjustment for the limited waiver of exclusivity from GF and net restructuring charges; for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company also included an adjustment for net restructuring charges; and for the first fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related a payment to GF and a legal settlement with a third party. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance.
The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the
"IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulted in a non-cash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was not reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities.
Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, as of the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices relating to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the third fiscal quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes quarterly adjustments for distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow.
The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management does not intend the presentation of these non-GAAP measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Media Contact
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Investor Contact
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Q1 2012 Results
 
(NYSE:AMD) today announced revenue for the first quarter of 2012 of $1.59 billion, net loss of $590 million, or $0.80 per share, and operating loss of $580 million. The company reported non-GAAP net income of $92 million, or $0.12 per share, and non-GAAP operating income of $138 million. First quarter non-GAAP net income excludes: the previously disclosed charge of $703 million for a limited waiver of exclusivity of certain 28 nanometer (nm) APU products from GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc.(GF) related to the 2012 Amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement; amortization of acquired intangible assets of $1 million; a restructuring charge of $8 million; SeaMicro, Inc. (SeaMicro) acquisition costs of $6 million, and a tax benefit related to the SeaMicro acquisition of $36 million.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  April. 19, 2012 
AMD
"AMD delivered solid results in the first quarter as we remain focused on improving our execution, delivering innovative products, and building a company around a strategy to deliver strong cash flow and earnings growth," said Rory Read, AMD president and CEO. "A complete top-to-bottom introduction of new APU offerings, combined with ample product supply resulting from continued progress with our manufacturing partners, positions us to win and grow."
 
#2112006
 
Quarterly Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Outlook
AMD's outlook statements are based on current expectations. The following statements are forward-looking, and actual results could differ materially depending on market conditions and the factors set forth under "Cautionary Statement" below.
AMD expects revenue to increase 3 percent, plus or minus 3 percent, sequentially for the second quarter of 2012.
For additional detail regarding AMD's results and outlook please see the CFO commentary posted at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
AMD Teleconference
AMD will hold a conference call for the financial community at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss its first quarter financial results. AMD will provide a real-time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the page of its Web site at . The webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call.
Investor Relations
AMD
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
1
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income
1
 
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Fusion Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, its second quarter of 2012 revenue, demand for the company's products, that the company will have sufficient supply of
 
company's products, its future growth, its ability to deliver sustained success, its strategy to deliver cash flow and earnings growth, its server strategy and growth opportunities, the anticipated benefits of from AMD's acquisition of SeaMicro, the timing of future products that incorporate the company's products, and the features of these new products which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates," "projects," "would," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this document are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this document and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's current plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; that its third party wafer foundry suppliers will be unable to transition the company's products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will not fully utilize its projected manufacturing capacity needs at GF's microprocessor manufacturing facilities for 2012; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on our sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD Opteron, AMD Radeon, and combinations thereof, and are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owner.
1
In this press release, in addition to GAAP financial results, the Company has provided non-GAAP financial measures including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP gross margin. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments as presented in the tables in this press release. The Company also provided Adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP Adjusted free cash flow as supplemental measures of its performance. These items are defined in the footnotes to the selected corporate data tables provided at the end of this press release. The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables. Refer to corresponding tables at the end of this press release for additional AMD data.
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Millions except per share amounts and percentages)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Millions)
 
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
SELECTED CORPORATE DATA
(Millions except headcount)
 
See footnotes on the next page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Reconciliation for all non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this commentary to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below and in our financial tables that accompany our earnings press release available on quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
Q1 2012 Major Events
Two events took place during Q1 2012 that contributed to the results discussed below:
 
 
2012 Amendment to the WSA  Financial impact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acquisition of SeaMicro  Financial impact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter 2012 Results
 
 
 
 
 
Q1 2012 Commentary
was $1.59 billion, down 6% sequentially. Sequential revenue decline in the Computing Solutions segment of 8% was driven by seasonality in the Client business. Graphics segment revenue was sequentially flat in a seasonally down quarter.
Revenue
was 46%, flat sequentially.
Non-GAAP gross margin
 
 
were $598 million, which includes $6 million in one-time expenses related to the SeaMicro acquisition.
Operating expenses
 
 
was $92 million and was $138 million.
Non-GAAP net income
non-GAAP operating income
To derive non-GAAP net income, we excluded the impact of:
 
 
 
 
 
To derive non-GAAP operating income, we excluded the impact of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
was $43 million, flat compared to the prior quarter.
Interest expense
was a net credit of $32 million in the quarter, compared to $4 million in the prior quarter. The difference is primarily a one-time tax benefit of $36 million
Tax provision
2
, related to the SeaMicro acquisition. Net of this one-time tax benefit, 2012 tax guidance is approximately $12 million.
was $0.12, calculated using 748 million fully diluted shares.
Non-GAAP EPS
was $215 million, down $45 million from the prior quarter due to lower non-GAAP operating income due to lower revenue in the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA
Q1 2012 Segment Results  Computing Solutions
was $1.2 billion, down 8% sequentially driven by seasonally lower sales in the Client business.
Computing Solutions segment revenue
 
 
 
 
 
was $124 million, down $41 million from the previous quarter, primarily due to lower revenue in the quarter.
Computing Solutions operating income
Q1 2012 Segment Results  Graphics
was $382 million, flat compared to the prior quarter.
Graphics segment revenue
 
 
 
 
was $34 million, up $7 million from the prior quarter primarily due to higher gross margin.
Graphics segment operating income
Balance Sheet
were $1.71 billion as of the end of Q1 2012. Cash declined by $201 million as compared to the end of Q4 2011. This was primarily the result of cash payments of $281 million related to the SeaMicro acquisition and $150 million related to the 2012 Amendment to the WSA.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including long term marketable securities
at the end of the quarter was $962 million, up $43 million compared to the end of Q4 2011 due to the timing of sales in the quarter.
Accounts Receivable
was $585 million exiting the quarter, up $109 million from the prior quarter primarily in preparation for new product launches.
Inventory
line item on the Balance Sheet is new in Q1 2012, and includes all amounts due to GF by AMD. The amount payable to GF increased $383 million from the prior quarter, primarily due to the remaining cash payments of $275 million to GF related to the 2012 Amendment to the WSA, scheduled through the remainder of 2012 and Q1 2013.
Payable to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF)
as of the end of the quarter was unchanged at $2.02 billion.
Debt
was $67 million. Net cash provided by operations was $107 million.
Non-GAAP free cash flow
AMD's ownership in GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF)
As a result of the 2012 Amendment to the WSA, and the 28 nm product limited waiver of exclusivity arrangement for AMD, AMD transferred all of its remaining ownership interest in GF to GF, and no longer has a GF board seat.
Outlook
The following statements concerning AMD are forward-looking and actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in AMD's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Q2 2012:
 
 
 
 
Additional Notes: AMD's Q1 2012 had 13 weeks of business compared to 14 weeks for the first quarter of 2011.
For more information, contact:
Investor Contacts:
Ruth Cotter
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
Irmina Blaszczyk
408-749-3398
irmina.blaszczyk@amd.com
Media Contact:
Drew Prairie
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Notes:
1. Limited waiver of exclusivity from GF: Pursuant to the second amendment to the Wafer Supply Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2012, between the Company and GF, the Company was granted certain rights to contract with another wafer foundry supplier with respect to specified products for a specified period. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $425 million in cash and transferred to GF all of the capital stock of GF that the Company owned, which had a carrying and fair value of $278 million. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time charge of $703 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this item from the Company's GAAP net loss, GAAP operating loss, and GAAP gross margin for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because the Company believes it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
2. Tax Benefit related to SeaMicro acquisition: Since the acquisition of SeaMicro is treated as a stock purchase for income tax purposes, tax amortization of the acquired identifiable intangible assets is not allowed. As a result, the Company is required to establish a deferred tax liability of approximately $36 million for the book/tax difference. This reduced the Company's existing valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset by providing an additional source of future taxable income. The reduction in valuation allowance resulted in a discrete income tax provision benefit of approximately $36 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. The Company excluded this
 
 
 
item from the Company's GAAP net loss for the first fiscal quarter of 2012 because it is not indicative of ongoing operating performance and because the Company believes exclusion of this item enables investors to better evaluate the Company's current operating performance compared with prior periods.
Non-GAAP Measures:
To supplement the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP earnings per share, Adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect certain adjustments, and the Company has presented a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures in the tables below.
The Company presents "Adjusted EBITDA" as a supplemental measure of its performance. Adjusted EBITDA for the Company is determined by adjusting operating income for depreciation and amortization, employee stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, for the first quarter of 2012 the Company included an adjustment for the limited waiver of exclusivity from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and net restructuring charges; for the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company also included an adjustment for net restructuring charges; and for the first quarter of 2011, the Company also included an adjustment related to a payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES and a legal settlement with a third party. The Company calculates and communicates Adjusted EBITDA in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors and lenders in relation to its overall capital structure and its ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the Company presents Adjusted EBITDA because it believes this measure assists investors in comparing its performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance. The Company's calculation of Adjusted EBITDA may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view Adjusted EBITDA as an alternative to the GAAP operating measure of operating income (loss) or GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA does not take into account changes in certain assets and liabilities as well as interest and income taxes that can affect cash flows.
The Company also presents non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the earnings release as a supplemental measure of its performance. In 2008 and 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "AMD Parties") entered into supplier agreements with IBM Credit LLC and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "IBM Parties"). Pursuant to these supplier agreements, the AMD Parties sold to the IBM Parties invoices of selected distributor customers. Because the Company does not recognize revenue until its distributors sell its products to their customers, under GAAP, the Company classified funds received from the IBM Parties as debt on the balance sheet. Moreover, for cash flow purposes, these funds were classified as cash flows from financing activities. When a distributor paid the applicable IBM Party, the Company reduced
 
 
 
the distributor's accounts receivable and the corresponding debt resulted in a noncash accounting entry. Because the Company did not receive the cash from the distributor to reduce the accounts receivable, the distributor's payment was not reflected in the Company's cash flows from operating activities. Non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow for the Company was determined by adding the distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. This amount was then further adjusted by subtracting capital expenditures. Generally, under GAAP, the reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to be a source of operating cash flows. Therefore, the Company believes that treating the payments from its distributor customers to the IBM Parties as if the Company actually received the cash from the distributor and then used that cash to pay down the debt is more reflective of the economic substance of the transaction. On February 11, 2011, the Company terminated its supplier agreements with IBM Parties. As a result, as of the end of the second quarter of 2011, there were no outstanding invoices relating to the financing arrangement with the IBM Parties, and starting from the third quarter of 2011, the Company no longer makes quarterly adjustments for distributors' payments to the IBM Parties to its GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities when calculating non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow. The Company calculates and communicates non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow in the financial schedules because the Company's management believes it is of importance to investors to understand the nature of these cash flows. The Company's calculation of non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow may or may not be consistent with the calculation of this measure by other companies in the same industry. Investors should not view non-GAAP adjusted free cash flow as an alternative to GAAP liquidity measures of cash flows from operating or financing activities. The Company has provided reconciliations within the press release and financial schedules of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Company is providing these financial measures because it believes this non-GAAP presentation makes it easier for investors to compare its operating results for current and historical periods and also because the Company believes it assists investors in comparing the Company's performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that it does not believe are indicative of its core operating performance and for the other reasons described in the footnotes to the selected data tables.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation:
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Gross Margin
 
AMD reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA
 
Non-GAAP Adjusted Free Cash Flow reconciliation
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements concerning AMD, our financial outlook for the second quarter of 2012, including our second quarter 2012 revenue and operating expenses, its 2012 tax guidance, and its estimated payment to GLOBALFOUNDRIES (GF) in 2012 for wafer purchases under the 2012 Amendment to the WSA, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are commonly identified by words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates," "projects," "would," and other terms with similar meaning. Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements in this document are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the date of this document and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. Risks include the possibility that Intel Corporation's pricing, marketing and rebating programs, product bundling, standard setting, new product introductions or other activities may negatively impact the company's current plans; the company may be unable to develop, launch and ramp new products and technologies in the volumes that are required by the market and at mature yields on a timely basis; that its third party wafer foundry suppliers will be unable to transition the company's products to advanced manufacturing process technologies in a timely and effective way or to manufacture the company's products on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies; the company will be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or components to meet demand for its products or will not fully utilize its projected manufacturing capacity needs at GF's microprocessor manufacturing facilities for 2012; that customers stop buying the company's products or materially reduce their operations or demand for the company's products; that the company may be unable to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; that there may be unexpected variations in market growth and demand for the company's products and technologies in light of the product mix that it may have available at any particular time or a decline in demand; the company will require additional funding and may be unable to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms, or at all; that global business and economic conditions will not continue to improve or will worsen; that demand for computers will be lower than currently expected; and the effect of political or economic instability, domestically or internationally, on our sales or supply chain. Investors are urged to review in detail the risks and uncertainties in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including but not limited to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 


