FILE:AMD/AMD-8K-20120917161954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 17, 2012, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Mr. Thomas Seifert, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be leaving the Company to pursue other opportunities.
On September 17, 2012, the Company appointed Devinder Kumar, age 57, the Company's Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, to serve as interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Kumar joined the Company in 1984. He has served as Corporate Controller of the Company since 2001 and as Senior Vice President of the Company since 2006. Mr. Seifert will remain with the Company in a non-executive position until September 28, 2012 to assist with the transition to the interim Chief Financial Officer. Effective September 28, 2012, Mr. Seifert will no longer serve as an employee of the Company.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 17, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Seifert's resignation and the appointment of Mr. Kumar. A copy of this press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
Drew Prairie
AMD Public Relations
512-602-4425
drew.prairie@amd.com
Contact:
Ruth Cotter
AMD Investor Relations
408-749-3887
ruth.cotter@amd.com
AMD (NYSE: AMD) today announced that Thomas Seifert has informed the company of his decision to resign as senior vice president and chief financial officer to pursue other opportunities. Devinder Kumar, senior vice president and corporate controller, will serve as interim chief financial officer while a search commences for Mr. Seifert's replacement. Kumar has served as the Company's corporate controller since 2001. Seifert's departure is not based on any disagreement over the Company's accounting principles or practices, or financial statement disclosures.
SUNNYVALE, Calif.  Sept. 17, 2012 
"We thank Thomas for his many contributions to AMD and for serving as interim CEO in 2011," said Rory Read, AMD president and CEO. "Thomas' personal commitment to the highest standards of accountability and financial integrity has helped define how AMD does business today. Devinder is an experienced financial executive whose financial expertise and semiconductor experience developed during his 28 year tenure at AMD is an asset to the company."
Mr. Seifert will remain with the company until September 28, 2012 to assist with the transition to the interim CFO.
About AMD
AMD (NYSE: AMD) is a semiconductor design innovator leading the next era of vivid digital experiences with its groundbreaking AMD Accelerated Processing Units (APUs) that power a wide range of computing devices. AMD's server computing products are focused on driving industry-leading Cloud computing and virtualization environments. AMD's superior graphics technologies are found in a variety of solutions ranging from game consoles, PCs to supercomputers. For more information, visit .
http://www.amd.com
AMD, the AMD Arrow logo are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and may be trademarks of their respective owners.


