ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of the results of operations and financial condition of Avon Products, Inc. and its majority and wholly owned subsidiaries in conjunction with the information contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. When used in this discussion, the terms Avon, Company, we, our or us mean, unless the context otherwise indicates, Avon Products, Inc. and its majority and wholly owned subsidiaries. Refer to the Non GAAP Financial Measures on page 24 of this 2010 Annual Report for a description of how Constant dollar (Constant $) growth rates (a Non GAAP financial measure) are determined. Overview We are a global manufacturer and marketer of beauty and related products. Our business is conducted worldwide, primarily in the direct selling channel. We presently have sales operations in 64 countries and territories, including the U.S., and distribute products in 41 more. Our reportable segments are based on geographic operations in six regions: Latin America; North America; Central & Eastern Europe; Western Europe, Middle East & Africa; Asia Pacific; and China. We have centralized operations for Global Brand Marketing, Global Sales and Supply Chain. Our product categories are Beauty, Fashion and Home. Beauty consists of color cosmetics, fragrances, skin care and personal care. Fashion consists of fashion jewelry, watches, apparel, footwear, accessories and childrens products. Home consists of gift and decorative products, housewares, entertainment and leisure products and nutritional products. Sales are made to the ultimate consumer principally through direct selling by approximately 6.5 million active independent Representatives, who are independent contractors and not our employees. The success of our business is highly dependent on recruiting, retaining and servicing our Representatives. During 2010, approximately 83% of our consolidated revenue was derived from operations outside the U.S. During 2010, revenues increased 6%, favorably impacted by growth in Active Representatives. Constant $ revenues also increased 6%. Acquisitions benefited full year revenue growth by approximately 1%. Sales from products in the Beauty category increased 6%, also 6% on a Constant $ basis, due to a 1% increase in units and 5% increase in net per unit. Active Representatives increased 4%. Following strong performance during the first half of 2010, revenue growth softened during the second half of the year. The first half of 2010 realized revenue growth of 11%, or 8% on a Constant $ basis, with operating margin expansion of 150 basis points, or 90 basis points improvement on an adjusted Non GAAP basis, which excludes costs to implement restructuring initiatives and Venezuelan special items. The second half of 2010 realized revenue growth of 3%, or 6% on a Constant $ basis, with acquisitions benefiting the growth by 3%. This slowdown of organic revenue growth pressured operating margins. Revenue growth in the second half of 2010 was negatively impacted by a slowdown in two of our largest and most profitable markets, Brazil and Russia. Brazils performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily driven by service disruptions resulting in shorting of products. Brazils revenue grew 38% and 9% during the first half and second half of 2010, respectively, with Constant $ revenue growth rates of 13% in the first half and 4% in the second half. The mid year implementation of government mandated e invoicing exacerbated our legacy order processing systems and capacity which have also been pressured by a significant increase in order scale in recent years. Russias revenue grew 26% in the first half of 2010, but was flat during the second half, with Constant $ growth rates of 14% in the first half and 2% in the second half. Russias performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily a result of slowing field growth due to weak incentives. Increases in social benefit taxes levied against certain Representatives exacerbated the slowdown in field growth. In Russia, weaker color and skincare performance negatively impacted revenue growth in the second half of 2010. See the Segment Review section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information related to changes in revenue by segment. During 2010, our operating margin was negatively impacted by the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency coupled with a required change to account for operations in Venezuela on a highly inflationary basis. As a result of using the historic dollar cost basis of nonmonetary assets, such as inventory, acquired prior to the devaluation, during 2010 operating profit was negatively impacted by $81 for the difference between the historical cost at the previous official exchange rate of 2.15 and the new official exchange rate of 4.30. 20 Table of Contents In addition to the negative impact to operating margin discussed above, as a result of the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency coupled with a required change to account for operations in Venezuela on a highly inflationary basis, during the first quarter of 2010 we also recorded net charges of $46.1 in Other expense, net and $12.7 in income taxes, reflecting the write down of monetary assets and liabilities and deferred tax benefits. See discussion of Venezuela within the Segment Review Latin America section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. We believe that our operating cash flow and global cash and cash equivalent balances of approximately $1.2 billion, coupled with the continuing execution of our turnaround strategies and the competitive advantages of our direct selling business model, will allow us to continue our focus on long term sustainable, profitable growth. We are also focused on innovating our direct selling channel through technological and service model enhancements for our Representatives and assessing new product category opportunities. In July 2010, we purchased substantially all the assets and liabilities of Silpada, a direct seller of jewelry products, primarily in North America, for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $650. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we may be required to pay additional consideration in 2015 if Silpadas North America business achieves specific earnings targets. In March 2010, we acquired Liz Earle Beauty Co. Limited (Liz Earle). The acquired business is included in our Western Europe, Middle East & Africa operating segment. In December 2010, we completed the sale of our subsidiary in Japan, which has been reflected as discontinued operations for all periods. Strategic Initiatives At the end of 2005, we launched a comprehensive, multi year turnaround plan to restore sustainable growth. As part of the turnaround plan, we launched our PLS and SSI Programs. Since 2005, we have identified, and in many cases implemented, restructuring initiatives under our 2005 and 2009 Restructuring Programs. We continue to implement certain initiatives under these restructuring programs. The anticipated savings or benefits realized from these initiatives has funded and will continue to fund our investment in, amongst other things, advertising, market intelligence, consumer research and product innovation. Whenever we refer to annualized savings or annualized benefits, we mean the additional operating profit we expect to realize on a full year basis every year following implementation of the respective initiative as compared with the operating profit we would have expected to achieve without having implemented the initiative. Advertising and Representative Value Proposition (RVP) Investing in advertising is a key strategy. We significantly increased spending on advertising over the past four years. During 2010, our investment in advertising increased by $48 or 14% and as a percentage of Beauty sales, our investment in advertising increased by 5% compared to 2009. The advertising investments supported new product launches, such as UCR Mega Impact Lipstick, Super Extend Mascara, Eternal Magic Fragrance, Outspoken by Fergie Fragrance, Anew Platinum Night Cream and Serum, Anew Luminosity Pro Serum, and Advance Technique Lotus Shield. Advertising investments also included advertising to recruit Representatives. We have also continued to forge alliances with celebrities, including an alliance with Fergie for her Outspoken fragrance. We continued to invest in our direct selling channel to improve the reward and effort equation for our Representatives. We have committed significant investments for extensive research to determine the payback on advertising and field tools and actions, and the optimal balance of these tools and actions in our markets. We have allocated these significant investments in proprietary direct selling analytics to better understand the drivers of value for our Representatives. We measure our investment in RVP as the incremental cost to provide these value enhancing initiatives. During 2010, we invested approximately $83 incrementally in our Representatives through RVP by continued implementation of our Sales Leadership program, enhanced incentives, increased sales campaign frequency, improved commissions and new e business tools. Investing in RVP will continue to be a key strategy. We will continue to look for ways to improve the earnings opportunity for Representatives through various means, including the following: Evaluating optimum discount structures in select markets; Continuing the roll out of our Sales Leadership Program, which offers Representatives an enhanced career opportunity; Strategically examining the fee structure and brochure costs to enhance Representative economics; Recalibrating the frequency of campaigns to maximize Representative selling opportunities; Service Model Transformation initiatives; 21 Table of Contents Applying the optimal balance of advertising and field investment in our key markets; and Web enablement for Representatives including on line training enhancements. While the reward and effort will be different within our global portfolio of businesses, we believe that web enablement is a key element to reduce Representative effort worldwide. We will continue to focus on improving Internet based tools for our Representatives. Product Line Simplification During 2006, we began to analyze our product line, under our PLS program, to develop a smaller range of better performing, more profitable products. The continued goal of PLS is to identify an improved product assortment to drive higher sales of more profitable products. During 2007, we completed the analysis of our product portfolio, determined the appropriate product assortment going forward and made decisions regarding the ultimate disposition of products that will no longer be part of our improved product assortment (such as selling at a discount, donation, or destruction). Sales and marketing benefits have accounted for most of our estimated projected benefits. Improving our product assortment has allowed, and will continue to allow us, to increase exposure and improve presentation of the remaining products within our brochure, which is expected to yield more pleasurable consumer shopping experiences, easier Representative selling experiences, and greater sales per brochure page. A second source of benefits from PLS results from transferable demand. Transferable demand refers to the concept that when products with redundant characteristics are removed from our product assortment, some demand from the eliminated products will transfer to the remaining products that offer similar or comparable product characteristics. As part of PLS, when we have identified products that have sufficient overlap of characteristics, we have eliminated the products with the lowest profitability and we expect the products that we retain will generate more profit. A third source of benefits from PLS is less price discounting. As we have implemented operating procedures under PLS, we have introduced fewer new products and lengthened the life cycle of products in our offering. We expect these operating procedures will lead to less aggressive price discounting over a products life cycle. In addition to the benefits above, supply chain benefits accounted for some of our estimated benefits. We expect improvements to cost of sales once PLS is fully implemented, primarily from a reduction in inventory obsolescence expense as a result of better managed inventory levels, lower variable spending on warehousing, more efficient manufacturing utilization and lower purchasing costs. We also expect operating expenses to benefit from a reduction in distribution costs and benefits to inventory productivity. Given the nature of these benefits, we estimate that we realized our targeted total benefits from this program of approximately $40 during 2008, $120 during 2009 and approximately $200 in 2010, or incremental benefits of approximately $80 over 2009. Strategic Sourcing Initiative We launched SSI in 2007. We believe this initiative has reduced direct and indirect costs of materials, goods and services. Under this initiative, we have shifted our purchasing strategy from a local, commodity oriented approach towards a globally coordinated effort which leverages our volumes, allows our suppliers to benefit from economies of scale, utilizes sourcing best practices and processes, and better matches our suppliers capabilities with our needs. Beyond lower costs, our goals from SSI include improving asset management, service for Representatives and vendor relationships. During 2008, we realized benefits of approximately $135 from SSI. During 2009, we realized approximately $200 of benefits from SSI, or incremental benefits of approximately $65 over 2008. During 2010, we realized approximately $300 of benefits from SSI, or incremental benefits of approximately $100 over the benefits realized in 2009. We continue to implement a Sales and Operations Planning process that is intended to better align demand plans with our supply capabilities and provide us with earlier visibility to any potential supply issues. Enterprise Resource Planning System We are in the midst of a multi year global roll out of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, which is expected to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes. We began our gradual global roll out in Europe in 2005 and have since implemented ERP in our European manufacturing facilities, our larger European direct selling operations and in the U.S. As part of this continuing global roll out, we expect to implement ERP in other countries over the next several years leveraging the knowledge gained from our previous implementations. 22 Table of Contents During 2008, we worked to improve the effectiveness of ERP in the U.S. and began to implement in the other markets within North America, as well as in some smaller European direct selling operations. In Latin America, we plan to implement modules of ERP in a gradual manner across key markets over the next several years. Zero Overhead Growth We have institutionalized a zero overhead growth philosophy that aims to offset inflation through productivity improvements. These improvements in productivity will come primarily from SSI and our restructuring initiatives. We have defined overhead as fixed expenses such as costs associated with our sales and marketing infrastructure, and management and administrative activities. Overhead excludes variable expenses within selling, general and administrative expenses, such as shipping and handling costs and bonuses to our employees in the sales organization, and also excludes consumer and strategic investments that are included in selling, general and administrative expenses, such as advertising, RVP, research and development and brochure costs. Restructuring Initiatives 2005 Restructuring Program We launched our original restructuring program under our multi year turnaround plan in late 2005. We have approved and announced all of the initiatives that are part of the 2005 Restructuring Program. We expect to record total restructuring charges and other costs to implement restructuring initiatives under this program of approximately $519 before taxes. Through December 31, 2010, we have recorded total costs to implement, net of adjustments, of $513.7 ($3.2 in 2010, $20.1 in 2009, $59.3 in 2008, $157.5 in 2007, $217.1 in 2006 and $56.5 in 2005) for actions associated with our restructuring initiatives under the 2005 Restructuring Program, primarily for employee related costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits, and professional service fees related to these initiatives. The costs to implement restructuring initiatives during 2005 through 2010 are associated with specific actions, including: organization realignment and downsizing in each region and global through a process called delayering, taking out layers to bring senior management closer to operations; the phased outsourcing of certain services, including certain finance, information technology, human resource and customer service processes, and the move of certain services from markets to lower cost shared service centers; the restructure of certain international direct selling operations; the realignment of certain distribution and manufacturing operations, including the realignment of certain of our North America and Latin America distribution operations; the automation of certain distribution processes; the exit of certain unprofitable operations and product lines; and the reorganization of certain functions, primarily sales related organizations. Actions implemented under these restructuring initiatives resulted in savings of approximately $350 in 2010, $300 in 2009, and $270 in 2008. We expect to achieve annualized savings of approximately $430 once all initiatives are fully implemented by 2011 2012. 2009 Restructuring Program In February 2009, we announced a new restructuring program under our multi year turnaround plan. We have approved and announced all of the initiatives that are of the 2009 Restructuring Program. The restructuring initiatives under the 2009 Restructuring Program focus on restructuring our global supply chain operations, realigning certain local business support functions to a more regional basis to drive increased efficiencies, streamlining transaction related services, including selective outsourcing, and reorganizing certain other functions. We expect to record total restructuring charges and other costs to implement these restructuring initiatives in the range of approximately $300 to $310 before taxes under the 2009 Restructuring Program. Through December 31, 2010, we have recorded total costs to implement, net of adjustments, of $228.3 ($77.5 in 2010, and $150.8 in 2009) for actions associated with our restructuring initiatives, primarily for employee related costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits, and professional service fees related to these initiatives. Actions implemented under these restructuring initiatives resulted in savings of approximately $15 in 2009. We achieved savings of approximately $80 in 2010. We are targeting annualized savings under the 2009 Restructuring Program of approximately $200 upon full implementation by 2012 2013. See Note 15, Restructuring Initiatives, on pages F 35 through F 39 of our 2010 Annual Report. 23 Table of Contents On an overall basis, we estimate that we have realized approximately $500 of benefits from PLS and SSI and $430 of savings from our two restructuring programs since the inception of our multi year turnaround plan in 2005. These savings have been offset by approximately $650 of investments in advertising and RVP. New Accounting Standards Information relating to new accounting standards is included in Note 2, New Accounting Standards, of our consolidated financial statements contained in this 2010 Annual Report. Key Performance Indicators Within this MD&A, we utilize the key performance indicators (KPIs) defined below to assist in the evaluation of our business. KPI Definition Growth in Active Representatives This indicator is based on the number of Representatives submitting an order in a campaign, totaled for all campaigns in the related period. This amount is divided by the number of billing days in the related period, to exclude the impact of year to year changes in billing days (for example, holiday schedules). To determine the growth in Active Representatives, this calculation is compared to the same calculation in the corresponding period of the prior year. Change in Units This indicator is based on the gross number of pieces of merchandise sold during a period, as compared to the same number in the same period of the prior year. Units sold include samples sold and product contingent upon the purchase of another product (for example, gift with purchase or purchase with purchase), but exclude free samples. Inventory Days This indicator is equal to the number of days of cost of sales, based on the average of the preceding 12 months, covered by the inventory balance at the end of the period. Non GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we disclose operating results that have been adjusted to exclude the impact of changes due to the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to these adjusted growth rates as Constant $ growth, which is a non GAAP financial measure. We believe this measure provides investors an additional perspective on trends. To exclude the impact of changes due to the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we calculate current year results and prior year results at a constant exchange rate. Currency impact is determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. We present gross margin, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue, operating profit, operating margin and effective tax rate on a non GAAP basis. The discussion of our segments presents operating profit and operating margin on a non GAAP basis. We have provided a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non GAAP financial measure and the financial measure calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP. These non GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The Company uses the non GAAP financial measures to evaluate its operating performance and believes that it is meaningful for investors to be made aware of, on a period to period basis, the impacts of 1) costs to implement (CTI) restructuring initiatives and 2) costs and charges related to Venezuela being designated as a highly inflationary economy and the subsequent devaluation of its currency in January 2010 (Venezuelan special items). The Venezuelan special items include the impact on the Statement of Income caused by the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency on monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash, receivables and payables; deferred tax assets and liabilities; and nonmonetary assets, such as inventory and prepaid expenses. For nonmonetary assets, the Venezuelan special items include the earnings impact caused by the difference between the historical cost of the assets at the previous official exchange rate of 2.15 and the revised official exchange rate of 4.30. 24 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates We believe the accounting policies described below represent our critical accounting policies due to the estimation processes involved in each. See Note 1, Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our consolidated financial statements contained in this 2010 Annual Report for a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies. Restructuring Reserves We record severance related expenses once they are both probable and estimable for severance provided under an ongoing benefit arrangement. One time, involuntary benefit arrangements and disposal costs, primarily contract termination costs, are recorded when the benefits have been communicated to employees. One time, voluntary benefit arrangements are recorded when the employee accepts the offered benefit arrangement. We evaluate impairment issues if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds the fair value of the asset. We estimate the expense for our restructuring initiatives, when approved by the appropriate corporate authority, by accumulating detailed estimates of costs for such plans. These expenses include the estimated costs of employee severance and related benefits, impairment of property, plant and equipment, contract termination payments for leases, and any other qualifying exit costs. These estimated costs are grouped by specific projects within the overall plan and are then monitored on a quarterly basis by finance personnel. Such costs represent our best estimate, but require assumptions about the programs that may change over time, including attrition rates. Estimates are evaluated periodically to determine if an adjustment is required. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Receivable Representatives contact their customers, selling primarily through the use of brochures for each sales campaign. Sales campaigns are generally for a two week duration in the U.S. and a two to four week duration outside the U.S. The Representative purchases products directly from us and may or may not sell them to an end user. In general, the Representative, an independent contractor, remits a payment to us each sales campaign, which relates to the prior campaign cycle. The Representative is generally precluded from submitting an order for the current sales campaign until the accounts receivable balance for the prior campaign is paid; however, there are circumstances where the Representative fails to make the required payment. We record an estimate of an allowance for doubtful accounts on receivable balances based on an analysis of historical data and current circumstances, including selling schedules, business operations, seasonality and changing trends. Over the past three years, annual bad debt expense has been in the range of $195 to $222, or approximately 2.0% of total revenue. Bad debt expense, as a percent of revenue decreased by .2 points in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to improved collection efforts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed for adequacy, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. We generally have no detailed information concerning, or any communication with, any end user of our products beyond the Representative. We have no legal recourse against the end user for the collectability of any accounts receivable balances due from the Representative to us. If the financial condition of our Representatives were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Allowances for Sales Returns We record a provision for estimated sales returns based on historical experience with product returns. Over the past three years, sales returns have been in the range of $365 to $425, or approximately 3.7% of total revenue. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates does not approximate future returns, due to changes in marketing or promotional strategies, or for other reasons, additional allowances may be required. Provisions for Inventory Obsolescence We record an allowance for estimated obsolescence equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value. In determining the allowance for estimated obsolescence, we classify inventory into various categories based upon its stage in the product life cycle, future marketing sales plans and the disposition process. We assign a degree of obsolescence risk to products based on this classification to determine the level of obsolescence provision. If actual sales are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory allowances may need to be recorded for such additional obsolescence. Annual obsolescence expense was $131.1 for 2010, $120.0 for 2009, and $79.4 for 2008. Obsolescence expense for 2008 benefited by approximately $13 from changes in estimates to our disposition plan under our PLS program. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Expense We maintain defined benefit pension plans, which cover substantially all employees in the U.S. and a portion of employees in international locations. Additionally, we have unfunded supplemental pension benefit plans for some current and retired executives and provide retiree health care and life insurance benefits subject to certain limitations to the majority of employees in the U.S. and in some foreign countries. See Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans, to our 2010 Annual Report for further information on our benefit plans. 25 Table of Contents Pension plan expense and the requirements for funding our major pension plans are determined based on a number of actuarial assumptions. These assumptions include the expected rate of return on pension plan assets, the interest crediting rate for hybrid plans and the discount rate applied to pension plan obligations. For 2010, the weighted average assumed rate of return on all pension plan assets, including the U.S. and non U.S. plans was 7.65%, compared to 7.60% for 2009. In determining the long term rates of return, we consider the nature of the plans investments, an expectation for the plans investment strategies, historical rates of return and current economic forecasts. We evaluate the expected long term rate of return annually and adjust as necessary. The majority of our pension plan assets relate to the U.S. pension plan. The assumed rate of return for 2010 for the U.S. plan was 8%, which was based on an asset allocation of approximately 40% in corporate and government bonds and mortgage backed securities (which are expected to earn approximately 4% to 6% in the long term) and 60% in equity securities and high yield securities (which are expected to earn approximately 7% to 10% in the long term). Historical rates of return on the assets of the U.S. plan was 5.09% for the most recent 10 year period and 8.75% for the 20 year period. In the U.S. plan, our asset allocation policy has favored U.S. equity securities, which have returned 2.6% over the 10 year period and 9.5% over the 20 year period. The plan assets in the U.S. returned 14.0% in 2010 and 24.6% in 2009. Recently issued regulations under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 require that hybrid plans limit the maximum interest crediting rate to one among several choices of crediting rates which are considered market rates of return. The rate chosen will affect total pension obligations. The discount rate used for determining future pension obligations for each individual plan is based on a review of long term bonds that receive a high quality rating from a recognized rating agency. The discount rates for our more significant plans, including our U.S. plan, were based on the internal rates of return for a portfolio of high quality bonds with maturities that are consistent with the projected future benefit payment obligations of each plan. The weighted average discount rate for U.S. and non U.S. plans determined on this basis was 5.21% at December 31, 2010, and 5.70% at December 31, 2009. For the determination of the expected rate of return on assets and the discount rate, we take into consideration external actuarial advice. Our funding requirements may be impacted by regulations or interpretations thereof. Our calculations of pension, postretirement and postemployment costs are dependent on the use of assumptions, including discount rates, hybrid plan maximum interest crediting rates and expected return on plan assets discussed above, rate of compensation increase of plan participants, interest cost, health care cost trend rates, benefits earned, mortality rates, the number of associate retirements, the number of associates electing to take lump sum payments and other factors. Actual results that differ from assumptions are accumulated and amortized to expense over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. At December 31, 2010, we had pretax actuarial losses and prior service credits totaling $422.0 for the U.S. plans and $241.2 for the non U.S. plans that have not yet been charged to expense. These actuarial losses have been charged to accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity. While we believe that the assumptions used are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may materially affect our pension, postretirement and postemployment obligations and future expense. During 2008, the plan assets experienced significant losses, which were mostly due to unfavorable returns on equity securities. These unfavorable returns will increase pension cost in future periods. For 2011, our assumption for the expected rate of return on assets is 8.0% for our U.S. plans and 7.31% for our non U.S. plans. Our assumptions are reviewed and determined on an annual basis. A 50 basis point change (in either direction) in the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate or the rate of compensation increases, would have had approximately the following effect on 2010 pension expense: Increase/(Decrease) inPension Expense 50 Basis Point Increase Decrease Rate of return on assets (5 ) 5 Discount rate (8 ) 8 Rate of compensation increase 1 (1 ) Taxes We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered projected future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize a net deferred tax asset in the future, in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase earnings in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to 26 Table of Contents realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would decrease earnings in the period such determination was made. Deferred taxes are not provided on the portion of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the U.S. when we conclude that these earnings are indefinitely reinvested. Deferred taxes are provided on earnings not considered indefinitely reinvested. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite the belief that our tax positions are fully supportable, there remain some positions that are likely to be challenged and may or may not be sustained on review by tax authorities. We adjust these additional accruals in light of changing facts and circumstances. We file income tax returns in many jurisdictions. In 2011, a number of open tax years are scheduled to close due to the expiration of the statute of limitations and it is possible that a number of tax examinations may be completed. If our filing positions are ultimately upheld, it is possible that the 2011 provision for income taxes may reflect adjustments We recognize the benefit of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We believe that our assessment of more likely than not is reasonable, but because of the subjectivity involved and the unpredictable nature of the subject matter at issue, our assessment may prove ultimately to be incorrect, which could materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements. Share based Compensation Stock options issued to employees are recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements based on their fair values using an option pricing model at the date of grant. We use a Black Scholes Merton option pricing model to calculate the fair value of options. This model requires various judgmental assumptions including volatility, forfeiture rates and expected option life. If any of the assumptions used in the model change significantly, share based compensation may differ materially in the future from historical results. Loss Contingencies We determine whether to disclose and accrue for loss contingencies based on an assessment of whether the risk of loss is remote, reasonably possible or probable. Our assessment is developed in consultation with our outside counsel and other advisors and is based on an analysis of possible outcomes under various strategies. Loss contingency assumptions involve judgments that are inherently subjective and can involve matters that are in litigation, which, by its nature is unpredictable. We believe that our assessment of the probability of loss contingencies is reasonable, but because of the subjectivity involved and the unpredictable nature of the subject matter at issue, our assessment may prove ultimately to be incorrect, which could materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and Other Identified Intangible Assets We test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, using fair value methods. We review identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We completed annual goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles impairment assessments and no adjustments were necessary for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008. Additionally, no events or changes in circumstances occurred that indicated that our intangible assets with defined useful lives may not be recoverable during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008. The asset impairment analyses performed for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles require several estimates including future cash flows, growth rates and the selection of discount rates. For our annual goodwill impairment test, the estimated fair value substantially exceeded the carrying values of each of our reporting units, with the exception of Silpada where the estimated fair value was similar to the carrying value, since this reporting unit was only recently acquired. See Note 17, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to our 2010 Annual Report for further information. A significant decline in expected future cash flows and growth rates or a change in the discount rate used to fair value expected future cash flows may result in a goodwill impairment charge. 27 Table of Contents Results Of Continuing Operations Consolidated %/Point Change 2010 vs. 2009 vs. 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Total revenue $ 10,862.8 $ 10,205.2 $ 10,507.5 6% (3)% Cost of sales 4,041.3 3,825.5 3,883.9 6% (2)% Selling, general and administrative expenses 5,748.4 5,374.1 5,299.1 7% 1% Operating profit 1,073.1 1,005.6 1,324.5 7% (24)% Interest expense 87.1 104.8 100.4 (17)% 4% Interest income (14.0) (20.2) (37.1) (31)% (45)% Other expense, net 54.7 7.3 38.2 * * Net income attributable to Avon $ 606.3 $ 625.8 $ 875.3 (3)% (46)% Diluted earnings per share attributable to Avon $ 1.39 $ 1.45 $ 2.03 (4)% (29)% Advertising expenses(1) $ 400.4 $ 352.7 $ 390.5 14% (10)% Gross margin 62.8% 62.5% 63.0% .3 .5 CTI restructuring .1 .1 .1 Venezuelan special items .6 .6 Adjusted Non GAAP gross margin 63.5% 62.6% 63.1% .9 .5 Selling, general and administrative expenses as a % of total revenue 52.9% 52.7% 50.4% .2 2.3 CTI restructuring (.7) (1.6) (.5) .9 (1.1) Venezuelan special items (.1) (.1) Adjusted Non GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses as a % of total revenue 52.2% 51.0% 49.9% 1.2 1.1 Operating profit 1,073.1 1,005.6 1,324.5 7% (24)% CTI restructuring 80.7 171.0 59.3 Venezuelan special items 81.0 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 1,234.8 1,176.6 1,383.8 5% (15)% Operating margin 9.9% 9.9% 12.6% (2.7) CTI restructuring .7 1.7 .6 (1.0) 1.1 Venezuelan special items .7 .7 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 11.4% 11.5% 13.2% (.1) (1.7) Effective tax rate 37.0% 32.2% 27.8% 4.8 4.4 CTI restructuring .3 (2.2) .3 2.5 (2.5) Venezuelan special items (5.6) (5.6) Adjusted Non GAAP effective tax rate 31.7% 30.0% 28.1% 1.7 1.9 Units sold 1% 3% Active Representatives 4% 10% 28 Table of Contents Amounts in the table above may not necessarily sum because the computations are made independently * Calculation not meaningful (1) Advertising expenses are included within selling, general and administrative expenses. Total Revenue During 2010, total revenues increased 6%, favorably impacted by growth in Active Representatives. Constant $ revenues also increased 6%. Acquisitions of Silpada in late July, and Liz Earle in late March, contributed approximately 1 point to revenue growth. Active Representatives increased 4%. On a category basis, the increase in revenue during 2010 was primarily driven by an increase of 6% in Beauty sales. Within the Beauty category, fragrance increased 11%, color cosmetics increased 7%, personal care increased 5% and skincare declined 3%. Fashion sales increased 11% and Home sales increased 3%. On a Constant $ basis, the Beauty category increased 6%. Within the Beauty category, Constant $ sales of fragrance increased 12%, color cosmetics increased 6%, personal care increased 5% and skincare declined 3%. Skincare growth rates benefited by 3 points from the Liz Earle acquisition. Constant $ sales of Fashion and Home increased 11% and 5%, respectively. Fashion growth rates benefited by 6 points from the Silpada acquisition. As noted previously in our Overview section, strong revenue performance during the first half of 2010 was offset by a slowdown in revenue growth during the second half of the year. Our second half of 2010 revenue growth was negatively impacted by a slowdown in two of our largest markets, Brazil and Russia. Brazils performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily driven by service disruptions resulting in shorting of products. The mid year implementation of government mandated e invoicing exacerbated our legacy order processing systems and capacity which have also been pressured by a significant increase in order scale in recent years. Russias performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily a result of slowing field growth due to weak incentives. Increases in social benefit taxes levied against certain Representatives exacerbated the slowdown in field growth. In Russia, weaker color and skincare performance negatively impacted growth in the second half of 2010. Total revenue decreased 3% in 2009, with unfavorable foreign exchange accounting for 9 percentage points of the revenue decline. Constant $ revenue increased 6%, with increases in all segments except North America and China. Active Representatives increased 10%. On a category basis, Constant $ Beauty sales increased 7%, while Fashion increased 2% and Home increased 6%. Within the Beauty category, Constant $ sales of skincare was flat, fragrance increased 7%, personal care increased 8% and color cosmetics increased 15%. On a reported basis, the decrease in revenue for 2009 was primarily driven by a decrease of 3% in Beauty sales, with decreases in all sub categories of Beauty except color cosmetics. Within the Beauty category, skincare declined 9%, fragrance declined 2%, personal care declined 2% and color cosmetics increased 3%. Fashion sales decreased 5% and Home sales decreased 2%. For additional discussion of the changes in revenue by segment, see the Segment Review section of this MD&A. Gross Margin Gross margin for 2010, increased by .3 points. On a Non GAAP basis, excluding the impact of the CTI restructuring and the Venezuelan special items, gross margin improved .9 points, reflecting benefits from manufacturing productivity gains, which include benefits from SSI, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange transactions. Gross margin for 2009 decreased by 0.5 points. The unfavorable impact of foreign exchange transactions lowered gross margin by an estimated 1.7 points for 2009. A portion of this negative impact from foreign exchange transactions was offset by strong manufacturing productivity gains which included benefits from SSI and strategic price increases. 2008 gross margin included benefits of approximately $13 of reduced obsolescence from changes in estimates to our disposition plan under our PLS program. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2010 increased $374.3. The increase is primarily due to: higher advertising and RVP costs; significant professional and related fees associated with the FCPA investigation and compliance reviews described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of approximately $95 (up approximately $59 from 2009); and higher volume related costs, such as distribution costs, partially offset by lower CTI from our restructuring initiatives. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding the impact of CTI restructuring and the Venezuelan special items, as a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses during 2010, increased by 1.2 points, due to higher advertising and RVP costs and the significant professional and related fees associated with the FCPA matters. 29 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $75.0 during 2009 as compared to 2008, due to higher CTI from our restructuring initiatives. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding the impact of CTI restructuring, as a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses during 2009, increased by 1.1 points, due to professional and related fees associated with the FCPA investigation and compliance reviews, partially offset by lower advertising costs. See the Segment Review section of MD&A for additional information related to changes in operating margin by segment. Other Expenses Interest expense during 2010 decreased by 17%, due to lower interest rates. Interest expense increased by 4% in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to increased borrowings, partially offset by lower interest rates. At December 31, 2010, we held interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted approximately 74% of our outstanding long term, fixed rate borrowings to a variable interest rate based on LIBOR, as compared to 82% at December 31, 2009. Interest income decreased in both 2010 and 2009, primarily due to lower interest rates. Other expense, net for 2010, increased due to a $46.1 negative impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency on monetary assets and liabilities in conjunction with highly inflationary accounting discussed further within the Latin America segment review. Other expense, net for 2009 was lower than during 2008 as a result of lower foreign exchange losses. Effective Tax Rate The effective tax rate for 2010 was 37.0%, compared to 32.2% for 2009 and 27.8% for 2008. The effective tax rate for 2010 was unfavorably impacted by 5.6 points due to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency in conjunction with highly inflationary accounting discussed further within the Latin America Segment review, partially offset by 2.1 points associated with benefits from audit settlements and statute expirations. The 2010 rate as compared to the 2009 rate was unfavorably impacted by 2.0 points resulting from the inability to establish deferred taxes on certain inflationary adjustments under highly inflationary accounting in 2010. The comparison was also negatively impacted by unfavorable changes in the earnings mix of international subsidiaries, offset by a lower tax cost associated with the repatriation of earnings. The effective tax rate for 2009 was unfavorably impacted by 3.4 points from the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets primarily as a result of restructuring activities, partially offset by 2.1 points from a reduction in a foreign tax liability. The 2009 rate as compared to the 2008 rate also included a higher tax cost associated with the repatriation of 2009 earnings, offset by favorable changes in the earnings mix of international subsidiaries. The effective tax rate for 2008 was favorably impacted by 3.6 points due to an audit settlement. 30 Table of Contents Segment Review Below is an analysis of the key factors affecting revenue and operating profit by reportable segment for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2010. Years ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 TotalRevenue OperatingProfit TotalRevenue OperatingProfit TotalRevenue OperatingProfit Latin America $ 4,589.5 $ 604.7 $ 4,103.2 $ 647.9 $ 3,884.1 $ 690.3 North America 2,244.0 155.9 2,293.4 110.4 2,522.0 213.9 Central & Eastern Europe 1,585.8 297.8 1,500.1 244.9 1,719.5 346.2 Western Europe, Middle East & Africa 1,462.1 176.5 1,277.8 84.2 1,351.7 121.0 Asia Pacific 752.4 93.4 677.3 61.6 679.3 87.7 China 229.0 (10.8 ) 353.4 20.1 350.9 17.7 Total from operations 10,862.8 1,320.5 10,205.2 1,169.1 10,507.5 1,476.8 Global and other expenses (244.4 ) (163.5 ) (152.3 ) Total $ 10,862.8 $ 1,073.1 $ 10,205.2 $ 1,005.6 $ 10,507.5 $ 1,324.5 Global and other expenses include, among other things, costs related to our executive and administrative offices, information technology, research and development, and marketing. Certain planned global expenses are allocated to our business segments primarily based on planned revenue. The unallocated costs remain as global and other expenses. We do not allocate costs of implementing restructuring initiatives related to our global functions to our segments. Costs of implementing restructuring initiatives related to a specific segment are recorded within that segment. 2010 2009 % Change 2009 2008 % Change Total global expenses $ 713.6 $ 577.3 24 % $ 577.3 $ 534.5 8 % Allocated to segments (469.2 ) (413.8 ) (13 )% (413.8 ) (382.2 ) 8 % Net global expenses $ 244.4 $ 163.5 49 % $ 163.5 $ 152.3 7 % The increase in Net Global expenses for 2010, was primarily attributable to significant professional and related fees associated with the FCPA investigation and compliance reviews described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included herein of approximately $95 (up approximately $59 from 2009). The increase in Net Global expenses for 2010 was also due to higher costs associated with global initiatives and costs associated with business acquisitions. Professional and related fees associated with the FCPA investigation and compliance reviews, while difficult to predict, are expected to continue and may vary during the course of this investigation. These costs were not allocated to the segments. The increase in total global expenses for 2009 was primarily attributable to higher legal and information technology related costs. The increase in amounts allocated to segments for 2009 is a result of a change in the mix of expenses which are allocated to the segments and higher global expenses. 31 Table of Contents Latin America 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 4,589.5 $ 4,103.2 12 % 13 % Operating profit 604.7 647.9 (7 )% 6 % CTI Restructuring 19.8 34.4 Venezuelan special items 81.0 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 705.5 682.3 3 % 4 % Operating margin 13.2 % 15.8 % (2.6 ) (1.0 ) CTI Restructuring .4 .8 Venezuelan special items 1.8 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 15.4 % 16.6 % (1.2 ) (1.4 ) Units sold 5 % Active Representatives 8 % Total revenue during 2010 increased due to growth in Active Representatives, driven by continued investments in RVP, and a higher average order. Revenue during 2010 grew 20% in Brazil and 15% in Mexico, with benefits from favorable foreign exchange, while the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange drove a revenue decline of 27% in Venezuela during 2010. Additional information regarding our Venezuela operations is discussed in more detail below. Constant $ revenue during 2010 benefited from continued growth in most markets, particularly from growth of 8% in Brazil, 8% in Mexico and 47% in Venezuela. Constant $ revenue growth in Mexico during 2010, was driven by an increase in Active Representatives, as well as an increase in average order. Constant $ revenue growth for 2010, in Venezuela reflected a higher average order primarily due to increased prices, partially as a result of inflation, and growth in Active Representatives. Constant $ revenue growth during 2010 in Brazil was primarily driven by an increase in Active Representatives. Constant $ revenue growth in 2010 in Brazil was pressured by service disruptions in the second half of the year and a decline in skin care sales. Brazils revenue grew 38% and 9% during the first half and second half of 2010, respectively, with constant $ growth rates of 13% in the first half and 4% in the second half. Brazils performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily driven by service disruptions resulting in shorting of products. The mid year implementation of government mandated e invoicing exacerbated our legacy order processing systems and capacity which have also been pressured by a significant increase in order scale in recent years as Brazils growth during this period outpaced our expectations and our planned infrastructure investments. These factors pressured the capacity of our legacy systems and were the primary cause of the service disruptions. Operating margin declined during 2010 in Latin America due to the negative impact of the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency in conjunction with highly inflationary accounting as discussed further below. The decline in operating margin during 2010 caused by the Venezuelan special items was partially offset by benefits of .4 points from lower CTI restructuring. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding the Venezuelan special items and CTI restructuring, the decrease in operating margin in 2010 was primarily driven by higher distribution costs, increased investment in RVP and advertising, partially offset by the benefit of favorable foreign exchange. Effective January 1, 2010, we began to account for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and moved to a two tier exchange structure. The official exchange rate moved from 2.15 to 2.60 for essential goods and to 4.30 for nonessential goods and services. Effective December 30, 2010, the Venezuelan government eliminated the 2.60 rate which had been available for the import of essential goods. Substantially all of the imports of our subsidiary in Venezuela (Avon Venezuela) falls into the nonessential classification. As a result of the change in the nonessentials official rate to 4.30 in conjunction with accounting for our operations in Venezuela under highly inflationary accounting guidelines, during the first quarter of 2010, we recorded net charges of $46.1 in Other expense, net and $12.7 in income taxes, for a total after tax charge of $58.8, reflecting the write down of monetary assets and liabilities and deferred tax benefits. Additionally, certain nonmonetary assets must continue to be carried at U.S. historic dollar cost subsequent to the devaluation. Therefore, the historic U.S. dollar costs impacted the income statement during 2010 at a disproportionate rate as they had not been devalued based on the new exchange rates. As a result of using the U. S. historic dollar cost basis of nonmonetary assets, such as inventory, acquired prior to the devaluation, operating profit during 2010 was negatively impacted by $81, for the 32 Table of Contents difference between the historical cost at the previous official exchange rate of 2.15 and the current official exchange rate of 4.30. Assuming no further devaluations, in 2011, the impact on operating profit of the 2010 Venezuelan currency devaluations will be immaterial. Currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government in 2003 have impacted the ability of Avon Venezuela to obtain foreign currency at the official rate to pay for imported products. Since 2003, Avon Venezuela had been obtaining their foreign currency needs beyond the amounts that could be obtained at official rates through non government sources where the exchange rates were less favorable than the official rate (parallel market). In late May 2010, the Venezuelan government took control over the previously freely traded parallel market. Trading in the parallel market was suspended for several weeks in May and June and reopened as a regulated (SITME) market in early June 2010. The government has imposed volume restrictions on trading activity, limiting an entitys activity to a maximum of $0.35 per month. The current limit is below the monthly foreign exchange requirements of our Venezuelan operations and, unless these restrictions are modified, may have a negative impact on Avon Venezuelas future operations. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to recover the higher cost of obtaining foreign currency in the SITME market as compared to the official rate through operating activities, such as increased pricing or cost reductions in other areas. At December 31, 2010, we had a net asset position of $158 associated with our operations in Venezuela, which included cash balances of approximately $120, of which approximately $116 was denominated in bol&iacute;vares remeasured at the December 31, 2010, nonessentials official exchange rate and approximately $4 was denominated in U.S. dollars. Of the $158 net asset position, approximately $134 was associated with bol&iacute;var denominated monetary net assets and deferred income taxes. Additionally, during 2010 Avon Venezuelas revenue and operating profit represented approximately 3% and (2)% of Avons consolidated revenue and Avons consolidated operating profit, respectively. Avon Venezuelas operating profit as a percentage of Avons consolidated operating profit was negatively impacted by 7 points due to the Venezuelan special items. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the exchange rate in the SITME market ranged within 5 to 6 Bol&iacute;vares to the U.S. Dollar. To illustrate our sensitivity to potential future changes in the nonessentials official exchange rate in Venezuela, if the nonessentials official exchange rate was further devalued as of December 31, 2010, to a rate of 5.7 Bol&iacute;vares to the U.S. dollar, which was approximately the rate on December 31, 2010, in the SITME market, or an approximate 25% devaluation, our results would be negatively impacted as follows: As a result of the use of a further devalued exchange rate for the remeasurement of Avon Venezuelas revenues and profits, Avons annualized consolidated revenues would likely be negatively impacted by approximately 1% and annualized consolidated operating profit would likely be negatively impacted by approximately 2% prospectively, assuming no operational improvements occurred to offset the negative impact of a further devaluation. Avons consolidated operating profit during the first twelve months following the devaluation in this example would likely be negatively impacted by approximately 4%, assuming no offsetting operational improvements. The larger negative impact on operating profit during the first twelve months as compared to the prospective impact is caused by costs of nonmonetary assets being carried at historic dollar cost in accordance with the requirement to account for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy while revenue would be remeasured at the further devalued rate. We would likely incur an immediate charge of approximately $25 ($24 in Other expenses, net and $1 in income taxes) associated with the $134 of Bol&iacute;var denominated monetary net assets and deferred income taxes. During 2010, costs associated with acquiring goods that required settlement in U.S. dollars through the parallel or SITME markets in Venezuela included within operating profit were approximately $56. The amounts reported within operating profit during 2009, were approximately $45. At December 31, 2010, Avon Venezuela had pending requests submitted with an agency of the Venezuelan government for approximately $76 for remittance of dividends and royalties to its parent company in the U.S. These outstanding requests had been periodically submitted between 2005 and 2009. 33 Table of Contents Latin America 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 4,103.2 $ 3,884.1 6 % 16 % Operating profit 647.9 690.3 (6 )% 2 % CTI Restructuring 34.4 6.1 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 682.3 696.4 (2 )% 7 % Operating margin 15.8 % 17.8 % (2.0 ) (2.0 ) CTI Restructuring .8 .2 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 16.6 % 17.9 % (1.3 ) (1.3 ) Units sold 6 % Active Representatives 10 % Total revenue increased for 2009 reflecting growth in Active Representatives, driven by investments in RVP, and a higher average order, offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. Revenue increased 9% in Brazil and declined 11% in Mexico for 2009. Constant $ revenue for 2009 benefited from growth in all markets, particularly from increases of 17% in Brazil and 8% in Mexico. Revenue in Venezuela for 2009 grew 18% in both Constant $ and U.S. dollars. Constant $ revenue growth in Brazil for 2009 was primarily driven by an increase in Active Representatives, as well as a higher average order. Constant $ revenue growth in Mexico for 2009 was driven by a significant increase in Active Representatives, partially offset by a lower average order, reflecting a difficult economic climate. Revenue growth in Venezuela for 2009 reflected increased prices due to inflation. During 2009, operating margin was negatively impacted by .6 points due to higher CTI restructuring compared to the same period in the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the decrease in operating margin in Latin America for 2009 was primarily due to an estimated 2 point negative impact of unfavorable foreign exchange transactions, which included the cost of our Venezuelan subsidiary settling certain U.S. dollar denominated liabilities through transactions with non government sources where the exchange rate was less favorable than the official rate (the parallel market). Partially offsetting these negative impacts was the benefit of higher revenues and fixed overhead expense. North America 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 2,244.0 $ 2,293.4 (2 )% (3 )% Operating profit 155.9 110.4 41 % 37 % CTI Restructuring 41.3 40.5 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 197.2 150.9 31 % 28 % Operating margin 6.9 % 4.8 % 2.1 2.0 CTI Restructuring 1.8 1.8 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 8.8 % 6.6 % 2.2 2.1 Units sold (7 )% Active Representatives (3 )% North America consists largely of the U.S. business and 2010 results include the results of Silpada, for the period since our acqusition at the end of July 2010. Silpada favorably impacted North America revenue growth by 5 points during 2010. Silpada also favorably impacted operating profit growth by 31 points during 2010 and favorably impacted Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit growth by 23 points. As a result of the Silpada acquisition, units sold and Active Representatives for 2010 were each favorably impacted by 1 point. 34 Table of Contents The total revenue decline during 2010 was due to a decline in Active Representatives and a lower average order received from Representatives. The decline in Active Representatives for 2010 was largely due to a decline in additions compared with last years record recruiting. This resulted in strong growth in Active Representatives during 2009 causing an unfavorable comparison in 2010. Sales of non Beauty products decreased 1% during 2010, with Silpada offsetting the decline by 10 points. Sales of Beauty products decreased 4% during 2010, partly due to weakness in the beauty market. The increase in North America operating margin and Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin during 2010 was primarily driven by improvements in gross margin caused by favorable pricing and mix and manufacturing productivity gains and the inclusion of Silpada results, which benefited operating margin by 1.2 points during 2010, despite approximately $7 of amortization of intangible assets. These operating margin benefits were negatively impacted by lower revenues which were not able to offset overhead expenses, despite cost saving initiatives. The costs associated with completing the Silpada acquisition were recorded in global expenses and were not allocated to the North America segment. Included within the Silpada results was an operating margin benefit of .7 points due to a change in the fair value of the contingent consideration recorded in connection with the Silpada acquisition, primarily due to a decrease in estimates of the ultimate earnout. We expect our results to continue to be pressured, as we focus on our recovery plan and transitioning our North America business, which includes optimizing our product portfolio and enhancing field fundamentals. North America 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 2,293.4 $ 2,522.0 (9 )% (9 )% Operating profit 110.4 213.9 (48 )% (48 )% CTI Restructuring 40.5 11.1 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 150.9 225.0 (33 )% (32 )% Operating margin 4.8 % 8.5 % (3.7 ) (3.6 ) CTI Restructuring 1.8 .4 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 6.6 % 8.9 % (2.3 ) (2.3 ) Units sold (7 )% Active Representatives 3 % Total revenue for 2009 was negatively impacted by the continued recessionary pressure, as a lower average order received from Representatives more than offset an increase in Active Representatives. Average order was particularly challenged in our non beauty categories during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales of non Beauty products declined 13% in 2009, consistent with the general retail environment. Sales of Beauty products declined 6% in 2009. The growth in Active Representatives during 2009 reflected our ongoing recruiting and training efforts. During 2009, operating margin was negatively impacted by 1.4 points due to higher CTI restructuring compared to the same period in the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the decline in operating margin during 2009 was due to lower revenues with fixed overhead expense and higher obsolescence expense during 2009. 35 Table of Contents Central & Eastern Europe 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 1,585.8 $ 1,500.1 6 % 5 % Operating profit 297.8 244.9 22 % 22 % CTI Restructuring 4.7 29.7 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 302.5 274.6 10 % 12 % Operating margin 18.8 % 16.3 % 2.5 2.7 CTI Restructuring .3 2.0 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 19.1 % 18.3 % .8 1.1 Units sold 3 % Active Representatives 4 % Total revenue during 2010 increased as a result of growth in Active Representatives and a higher average order, as well as favorable foreign exchange. The regions revenue benefited from growth of 11% in Russia, due partially to favorable foreign exchange. During 2010, Constant $ revenue in Russia increased by 7% due to a growth in Active Representatives and a higher average order. Russias revenue grew 26% in the first half of 2010, but was flat during the second half, with Constant $ growth rates of 14% in the first half and 2% in the second half. Russias performance in the second half of 2010 was primarily a result of slowing field growth due to weak incentives. Increases in social benefit taxes levied against certain Representatives exacerbated the slowdown in field growth. The increased taxes disproportionately reduced new and developing Representatives earnings, which reduced their motivation to recruit. In Russia, weaker color and skincare performance negatively impacted revenue growth in the second half of 2010. During the first quarter of 2011, we launched a new sales leadership compensation plan to help offset the tax burden on these Representatives. During 2010, operating margin benefited by 1.7 points due to lower CTI restructuring compared to the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, the increase in operating margin during 2010 was primarily driven by the benefit of leverage from higher revenues with fixed overhead expenses, partially offset by a lower gross margin. Central & Eastern Europe 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 1,500.1 $ 1,719.5 (13 )% 9 % Operating profit 244.9 346.2 (29 )% (12 )% CTI Restructuring 29.7 3.3 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 274.6 349.5 (21 )% (3 )% Operating margin 16.3 % 20.1 % (3.8 ) (3.8 ) CTI Restructuring 2.0 .2 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 18.3 % 20.3 % (2.0 ) (2.2 ) Units sold 2 % Active Representatives 10 % Total revenue decreased for 2009 as compared to 2008, impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue for 2009 increased despite recessionary pressures throughout the region, reflecting growth in Active Representatives, driven by investments in RVP as well as strong marketing offers. While the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates drove revenue declines of 7% in Russia and 19% in Ukraine for 2009, Constant $ revenue grew during 2009 by 18% in Russia and 20% in Ukraine. The Constant $ revenue increase in Russia for 2009 was primarily due to strong growth in Active Representatives. In late 2008, we completed the roll out of Sales Leadership and improved the discount structure we offered Representatives in Russia. The Constant $ revenue increase in Ukraine for 2009 was primarily due to growth in Active Representatives and a higher average order due to increased pricing from inflation, partially offset by the negative impact of recent economic conditions. 36 Table of Contents During 2009, operating margin was negatively impacted by 1.8 points due to higher CTI restructuring compared to the prior year. On an adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the decrease in operating margin for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily driven by the unfavorable impacts of foreign exchange transactions, which negatively impacted operating margin by an estimated 5 points, partially offset by lower advertising costs in 2009 as compared to 2008 and the benefit of higher Constant $ revenues with fixed overhead expenses. Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin for 2009 was also negatively impacted by higher obsolescence expense in 2009, as the 2008 period benefited from an adjustment to inventory obsolescence reserve due to changes in our estimates to our disposition plan of products reserved for under PLS. Western Europe, Middle East & Africa 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 1,462.1 $ 1,277.8 14 % 15 % Operating profit 176.5 84.2 110 % 107 % CTI Restructuring 1.6 31.0 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 178.1 115.2 55 % 56 % Operating margin 12.1 % 6.6 % 5.5 5.5 CTI Restructuring .1 2.4 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 12.2 % 9.0 % 3.2 3.2 Units sold 12 % Active Representatives 12 % Total revenue during 2010 primarily increased as a result of an increase in Active Representatives. The regions revenue growth during 2010 was primarily due to significant growth in South Africa and Turkey, as well as the acquisition of Liz Earle, which contributed approximately 3 points to revenue growth in 2010. During 2010, revenue increased 17% in Turkey and Constant $ revenue increased 15% in Turkey, due primarily to strong growth in Active Representatives, driven by continued investments in RVP. During 2010, revenue increased 82% in South Africa, partially benefiting from favorable foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue growth of 64% during 2010 in South Africa was primarily attributable to strong growth in Active Representatives, driven by investments in RVP, and the expansion of our geographic reach in the country. During 2010, revenue increased by 1% in the United Kingdom, while Constant $ revenue increased by 3% due to a growth in Active Representatives, partially offset by a lower average order. During 2010, operating margin benefited by 2.3 points due to lower CTI restructuring compared to the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the increase in operating margin during 2010 was primarily driven by improvements in gross margin, driven by improved manufacturing productivity, including the benefits of SSI. Western Europe, Middle East & Africa 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 1,277.8 $ 1,351.7 (5 )% 6 % Operating profit 84.2 121.0 (30 )% (22 )% CTI Restructuring 31.0 24.3 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 115.2 145.3 (21 )% (10 )% Operating margin 6.6 % 8.9 % (2.3 ) (2.1 ) CTI Restructuring 2.4 1.8 Adjusted Non CAAP operating margin 9.0 % 10.7 % (1.7 ) (1.4 ) Units sold 8 % Active Representatives 10 % 37 Table of Contents Total revenue decreased for 2009 as compared to 2008 as a result of unfavorable foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue increased for 2009 as a result of growth in Active Representatives, offset by a lower average order reflecting recessionary pressure. Active Representatives growth for 2009 benefited by one point due to the acquisition of a small distributor in Saudi Arabia during the second quarter of 2009. This acquisition had minimal impact on the financial results. Revenue declined 16% in the United Kingdom during 2009, due to the negative impact of foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue in the United Kingdom declined 1% during 2009, as strong merchandising of smart value products countered the recessionary pressure. Revenue in Turkey increased 2% during 2009. Turkeys Constant $ revenue increased 21% during 2009, reflecting an increase in Active Representatives, driven by investments in RVP and Sales Leadership. During 2009, operating margin was negatively impacted by .6 points due to higher CTI restructuring compared to the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the decrease in operating margin for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign exchange, including the impacts of foreign exchange transactions as well as translation, which negatively impacted operating margin by an estimated 3 points, partially offset by lower overhead expenses in 2009. Asia Pacific 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 752.4 $ 677.3 11 % 3 % Operating profit 93.4 61.6 52 % 34 % CTI Restructuring (.2 ) 18.5 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 93.2 80.1 16 % 4 % Operating margin 12.4 % 9.1 % 3.3 2.8 CTI Restructuring 2.7 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 12.4 % 11.8 % .6 .1 Units sold 3 % Active Representatives 5 % The regions results for 2010 and 2009 exclude the results of Japan, which was classified as a discontinued operation beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010. Total revenue during 2010 increased due to favorable foreign exchange and growth in Active Representatives, partially offset by a lower average order. Revenue grew 15% during 2010 in the Philippines, benefiting partially from favorable foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue during 2010 in the Philippines increased by 10% driven by growth in Active Representatives, which was supported by RVP initiatives, offset by a lower average order. The regions results were negatively impacted by a decline in skincare sales during 2010. During 2010, operating margin benefited by 2.7 points due to lower CTI restructuring compared to the prior year. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, operating margin during 2010 benefited from improved gross margin, which benefited from lower product costs and favorable foreign exchange, which benefited gross margin by approximately 1 point, partially offset by an increased investment in RVP. 38 Table of Contents Asia Pacific 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 677.3 $ 679.3 % 6 % Operating profit 61.6 87.7 (30 )% (24 )% CTI Restructuring 18.5 (0.6 ) Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 80.1 87.2 (8 )% (2 )% Operating margin 9.1 % 12.9 % (3.8 ) (3.8 ) CTI Restructuring 2.7 (.1 ) Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 11.8 % 12.8 % (1.0 ) (1.0 ) Units sold 4 % Active Representatives 7 % The regions results for 2009 and 2008 exclude the results of Japan, which was classified as a discontinued operation beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010. Total revenue was flat for 2009, impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange. Constant $ revenue increased for 2009 as a result of growth in Active Representatives, offset by a lower average order. Revenue in the Philippines increased 6%, while Constant $ revenue in the Philippines increased by 14%, driven by growth in Active Representatives, supported by RVP initiatives. Operating margin for 2009 as compared to 2008 was negatively impacted by 2.8 points due to higher CTI restructuring. On an Adjusted Non GAAP basis, excluding CTI restructuring, the decrease in operating margin for 2009 was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign exchange, including the impacts of foreign exchange transactions as well as translation, which negatively impacted operating margin by an estimated 2 points. Partially offsetting these items were the benefits of growth derived from higher margin markets. China 2010 Compared to 2009 %/Point Change 2010 2009 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 229.0 $ 353.4 (35 )% (36 )% Operating (loss) profit (10.8 ) 20.1 (154 )% (154 )% CTI Restructuring (.1 ) 1.9 Adjusted Non GAAP operating (loss) profit (10.9 ) 22.0 (150 )% (150 )% Operating margin (4.7 )% 5.7 % (10.4 ) (10.6 ) CTI Restructuring .5 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin (4.8 )% 6.2 % (11.0 ) (11.1 ) Units sold (38 )% Active Representatives (39 )% Total revenue during 2010 decreased due to significant revenue declines in both direct selling and Beauty Boutiques. The fundamental challenges in our complex hybrid business model, including conflicting needs of retail and direct selling, impacted both businesses, resulting in a 39% reduction in Active Representatives. Our continued transition away from our complex hybrid business model to one which focuses on direct selling and updating our service center model is expected to include a realigned field compensation structure and recalibrated merchandising and campaign management strategies to support direct selling. We anticipate that this will position us to expand our direct selling penetration and coverage. However, this transition is resulting in attrition in our Beauty Boutiques over time. The transition will continue to negatively impact our near term outlook. We remain positive about our long term revenue and operating profit opportunities. The unfavorable change in operating margin during 2010 was primarily driven by significantly lower revenues. 39 Table of Contents For information concerning an internal investigation into our China operations, see Risk Factors and Note 16, Contingencies. China 2009 Compared to 2008 %/Point Change 2009 2008 US$ Constant $ Total revenue $ 353.4 $ 350.9 1 % (1 )% Operating profit 20.1 17.7 14 % 12 % CTI Restructuring 1.9 .2 Adjusted Non GAAP operating profit 22.0 17.9 23 % 22 % Operating margin 5.7 % 5.0 % .7 .7 CTI Restructuring .5 .1 Adjusted Non GAAP operating margin 6.2 % 5.1 % 1.1 1.2 Units sold 3 % Active Representatives 32 % Total revenue increased during 2009 as compared to 2008 due to the impact of favorable foreign exchange and an increase in Active Representatives, partially offset by a lower average order. Revenue from Beauty Boutiques decreased by over 40% during 2009, reflecting the complex evolution towards direct selling in this hybrid business model, which is unique to this market. Revenue growth from direct selling increased 24% during 2009. The increase in operating margin for 2009 was primarily driven by lower advertising costs and cost saving initiatives. A lower gross margin offset these operating margin benefits for 2009. Additionally, the 2008 operating margin was negatively impacted by costs associated with the 2008 earthquake and floods. Liquidity And Capital Resources Our principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations, commercial paper and borrowings under lines of credit. As disclosed in the Latin America Segment Review, currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government have impacted our ability to repatriate dividends and royalties from our Venezuelan operations on a timely basis. We currently believe that existing cash outside of Venezuela, as well as cash to be generated from operations outside of Venezuela along with available sources of public and private financing are adequate to meet the Companys anticipated requirements for working capital, dividends, capital expenditures, the share repurchase program, possible acquisitions and other cash needs in the short and long term. We may, from time to time, seek to repurchase our equity or to retire our outstanding debt in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, derivative instruments or otherwise. During 2010, we repurchased approximately .4 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $14.1. During 2009, we repurchased approximately .4 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8.6. Retirements of debt will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, and the amounts involved may be material. We may also elect to incur additional debt or issue equity or convertible securities to finance ongoing operations, acquisitions or to meet our other liquidity needs. In July 2010, Avon completed the purchase of substantially all the assets and liabilities of Silpada for approximately $650 in cash. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we may be required to pay additional consideration in 2015 if Silpadas North America business achieves specific earnings target. The acquisition was funded with cash and commercial paper borrowings. Refer to Note 17, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to our 2010 Annual Report for more details. Any issuances of equity securities or convertible securities could have a dilutive effect on the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may adversely impact earnings per share in future periods. 40 Table of Contents Our liquidity could also be impacted by dividends, capital expenditures and acquisitions. At any given time, we may be in discussions and negotiations with potential acquisition candidates. Acquisitions may be accretive or dilutive and by their nature involve numerous risks and uncertainties. See our Cautionary Statement for purposes of the Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Balance Sheet Data 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,179.9 $ 1,298.1 Total debt 3,136.2 2,445.0 Working capital 1,228.0 1,914.5 Cash Flows 2010 2009 2008 Net cash from continuing operating activities $ 689.0 $ 754.7 $ 733.9 Net cash from continuing investing activities (1,095.7 ) (218.3 ) (400.3 ) Net cash from continuing financing activities 234.7 (361.2 ) (140.8 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents (33.7 ) 5.6 (61.9 ) Net Cash from Continuing Operating Activities Net cash provided from continuing operating activities during 2010 was $65.7 lower than 2009, primarily due to both higher inventories resulting from lower than expected sales and the negative impacts of timing of restructuring payments. Offsetting these unfavorable comparisons are the recovery of value added taxes in Brazil. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities during 2009 was $20.8 higher than during 2008, primarily due to favorable comparisons to 2008, which included the timing of payments relating to our restructuring programs, higher incentive based compensation payments related to our 2006 2007 Turnaround Incentive Plan and the impact of advance purchases of paper for brochures in 2008. Offsetting these favorable comparisons, are net unfavorable working capital movements in accounts receivable as compared to 2008 and additional payments of value added taxes in Brazil that we expect to recover in the future. Inventory levels increased during 2010, to $1,152.9 at December 31, 2010, from $1,049.8 at December 31, 2009, primarily reflecting lower than expected sales offset by the benefit of favorable foreign exchange. New inventory life cycle management processes leveraged with initiatives such as PLS, SSI, ERP implementation and the Sales and Operations Planning process are expected to improve inventory levels in the long term. Inventory days are up 4 days in 2010 as compared to 2009, due to lower than expected sales offset by the benefit of favorable foreign exchange. We maintain defined benefit pension plans and unfunded supplemental pension benefit plans (see Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans). Our funding policy for these plans is based on legal requirements and cash flows. The amounts necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions (as detailed in Critical Accounting Estimates). The future funding for these plans will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of associates electing to take lump sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions. Based on current assumptions, we expect to make contributions in the range of $90 to $100 to our U.S. pension plans and in the range of $40 to $45 to our international pension plans during 2011. Net Cash from Continuing Investing Activities Net cash used by continuing investing activities during 2010 was $877.4 higher than during 2009, primarily due to the acquisition of Silpada and Liz Earle. In addition during the first half of 2009, we redeemed certain corporate owned life insurance policies. Net cash used by investing activities during 2009 was $182.0 lower than 2008, primarily due to the redemption of certain corporate owned life insurance policies in 2009 and lower capital expenditures. Capital expenditures during 2010 were $331.2 compared with $296.3 in 2009 due to higher information technology expenditure in Latin America. Capital expenditures during 2009 were $296.3 compared with $377.4 in 2008. This decrease resulted from our efforts to preserve capital. Capital expenditures in 2011 are currently expected to be approximately $300 to $315 and will be funded by cash from operations. These expenditures will include investments for capacity expansion, modernization of existing facilities, continued construction of new distribution facilities in Latin America and information systems. 41 Table of Contents Net Cash from Continuing Financing Activities Net cash provided by continuing financing activities of $234.7 during 2010 compared favorably to cash used by continuing financing activities of $361.2 during 2009 primarily due to the issuance of debt in 2010 to partially finance the Silpada acquisition. Net cash used by financing activities of $361.2 during 2009, compared unfavorably to cash used by financing activities of $140.8 during 2008. During 2009, we repaid $958.1 of commercial paper and other debt as compared to $290.8 during 2008. In 2009, we received proceeds from the $850 debt issuance during March 2009 as compared to a $500 debt issuance during 2008. Additionally, during 2009 we repurchased $8.6 of common stock as compared to $172.1 in 2008. We purchased approximately .4 million shares of our common stock for $14.1 during 2010, as compared to .4 million shares for $8.6 during 2009 and 4.6 million shares for $172.1 during 2008, under our previously announced share repurchase programs and through acquisition of stock from employees in connection with tax payments upon vesting of restricted stock units. In October 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $2,000.0 of our common stock over a five year period, which began in December 2007. We increased our quarterly dividend payments to $.22 per share in 2010 from $.21 per share in 2009. In February 2011, our Board approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $.23 per share. Debt and Contractual Financial Obligations and Commitments At December 31, 2010, our debt and contractual financial obligations and commitments by due dates were as follows: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016and Beyond Total Short term debt $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 Long term debt 375.0 500.0 142.0 1,243.0 2,260.0 Capital lease obligations 13.5 15.9 6.7 4.3 5.3 35.2 80.9 Total debt 513.5 15.9 381.7 504.3 147.3 1,278.2 2,840.9 Debt related interest 117.3 115.8 101.8 74.0 68.8 67.8 545.5 Total debt related 630.8 131.7 483.5 578.3 216.1 1,346.0 3,386.4 Operating leases 103.5 83.6 72.9 61.7 56.6 164.5 542.8 Purchase obligations 223.4 88.4 62.9 51.0 50.3 14.6 490.6 Benefit obligations (1) 125.8 11.8 9.5 9.2 7.6 44.1 208.0 Total debt and contractual financial obligations and commitments (2) $ 1,083.5 $ 315.5 $ 628.8 $ 700.2 $ 330.6 $ 1,569.2 $ 4,627.8 (1) Amounts represent expected future benefit payments for our unfunded pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as expected contributions for 2011 to our funded pension benefit plans. We are not able to estimate our contributions to our funded pension plans beyond 2011. (2) The amount of debt and contractual financial obligations and commitments excludes amounts due under derivative transactions. The table also excludes information on recurring purchases of inventory as these purchase orders are non binding, are generally consistent from year to year, and are short term in nature. The table does not include any reserves for income taxes because we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of our reserves for income taxes. At December 31, 2010, our reserves for income taxes, including interest and penalties, totaled $97.8. See Note 5, Debt and Other Financing, and Note 14, Leases and Commitments, to our 2010 Annual Report for further information on our debt and contractual financial obligations and commitments. Additionally, as disclosed in Note 15, Restructuring Initiatives, we have a remaining liability of $135.9 at December 31, 2010, associated with the restructuring charges recorded to date under the 2005 and 2009 Restructuring Programs, and we also expect to record additional restructuring charges of $25.1 in future periods to implement the actions approved to date. The significant majority of these liabilities will require cash payments during 2011. 42 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2010, we had no material off balance sheet arrangements. Capital Resources We maintain a three year, $1,000.0 revolving credit and competitive advance facility, which expires in November 2013, and a $300.0, 364 day credit facility, which expires on December 13, 2011, (collectively, the credit facilities). Borrowings under the credit facilities bear interest at a rate per annum, which are either based on LIBOR or a floating base rate plus an applicable margin. The credit facilities contain various covenants, including a financial covenant that requires our interest coverage ratio (determined in relation to our consolidated pretax income and interest expense) to equal or exceed 4:1. The credit facilities may be used for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2010, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facilities. We also maintain a $1,000.0 commercial paper program. Under this program, we may issue from time to time unsecured promissory notes in the commercial paper market in private placements exempt from registration under federal and state securities laws, for a cumulative face amount not to exceed $1,000.0 outstanding at any one time and with maturities not exceeding 270 days from the date of issue. The commercial paper short term notes issued under the program are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to voluntary prepayment. The commercial paper program is supported by our three year credit facility. Outstanding commercial paper effectively reduces the amount available for borrowing under the three year credit facility. At December 31, 2010, there were no amounts outstanding under this program. In November 2010, we issued, in a private placement exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, $142.0 principal amount of 2.60% Senior Notes, Series A, due November 23, 2015, $290.0 principal amount of 4.03% Senior Notes, Series B, due November 23, 2020, and $103.0 principal amount of 4.18% Senior Notes, Series C, due November 23, 2022. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company, rank equal in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company, and are unconditionally guaranteed by one of the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries. The Notes also require the Company to comply with an interest coverage ratio and contain customary default provisions, including cross default provisions. The proceeds from the sale of the Notes were used to repay existing debt and for general corporate purposes. In March 2009, we issued, in a public offering, $500.0 principal amount of 5.625% Notes, due March 1, 2014 and $350.0 principal amount of 6.50% Notes, due March 1, 2019. In March 2008, we issued, in a public offering, $250.0 principal amount of 4.80% Notes, due March 1, 2013 and $250.0 principal amount of 5.75% Notes, due March 1, 2018. The proceeds from these offerings were used to repay the outstanding indebtedness under our commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants in our indentures. Such indentures do not contain any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of our debt. We would be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes described above at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, in the event of a change in control involving us and a corresponding ratings downgrade to below investment grade. We also have outstanding $250.0 principal amount of 4.20% Notes, due July 15, 2018 and $125.0 principal amount of 4.625% Notes, due May 15, 2013. Additionally, we had $500.0 principal amount of 5.125% Notes, due in January 2011, outstanding at December 31, 2010, which has subsequently been repaid primarily with the use of commercial paper. Please refer to Note 5, Debt and Other Financing, to our 2010 Annual Report for more details. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The overall objective of our financial risk management program is to reduce the potential negative effects from changes in foreign exchange and interest rates arising from our business activities. We may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in cash flows associated with changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting positions through the use of derivative financial instruments and through operational means. Since we use foreign currency rate sensitive and interest rate sensitive instruments to hedge a portion of our existing and forecasted transactions, we expect that any loss in value for the hedge instruments generally would be offset by changes in the value of the underlying transactions. 43 Table of Contents We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes, nor are we a party to leveraged derivatives. The master agreements governing our derivative contracts generally contain standard provisions that could trigger early termination of the contracts in some circumstances, including if we were to merge with another entity and the creditworthiness of the surviving entity were to be materially weaker than that of Avon prior to the merger. Interest Rate Risk We use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure. The interest rate swaps are used to either convert our fixed rate borrowing to a variable interest rate or to unwind an existing variable interest rate swap on a fixed rate borrowing. At December 31, 2010, we held interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted approximately 74% of our outstanding long term, fixed rate borrowings to a variable interest rate based on LIBOR, as compared to 82% at December 31, 2009. Our total exposure to floating interest rates was 81% at December 31, 2010, and 83% at December 31, 2009. Our long term borrowings and interest rate swaps were analyzed at year end to determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. Based on the outstanding balance of all these financial instruments at December 31, 2010, a hypothetical 50 basis point change (either an increase or a decrease) in interest rates prevailing at that date, sustained for one year, would not represent a material potential change in fair value, earnings or cash flows. This potential change was calculated based on discounted cash flow analyses using interest rates comparable to our current cost of debt. Foreign Currency Risk We operate globally, with operations in various locations around the world. Over the past three years, approximately 83% of our consolidated revenue was derived from operations of subsidiaries outside of the U.S. The functional currency for most of our foreign operations is the local currency. We are exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal course of our operations, primarily due to international businesses and transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the use of various financial instruments to fund ongoing activities. At December 31, 2010, the primary currencies for which we had net underlying foreign currency exchange rate exposures were the Argentine peso, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Colombian peso, the euro, Mexican peso, Philippine peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble, Turkish lira, Ukrainian hryvnia and Venezuelan bol&iacute;var. We may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting positions through the use of derivative financial instruments. Our hedges of our foreign currency exposure are not designed to, and, therefore, cannot entirely eliminate the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our foreign currency financial instruments were analyzed at year end to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. Based on our foreign exchange contracts at December 31, 2010, the impact of a hypothetical 10% appreciation or 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against our foreign exchange contracts would not represent a material potential change in fair value, earnings or cash flows. This potential change does not consider our underlying foreign currency exposures. The hypothetical impact was calculated on the open positions using forward rates at December 31, 2010, adjusted for an assumed 10% appreciation or 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these hedging contracts. Credit Risk of Financial Instruments We attempt to minimize our credit exposure to counterparties by entering into derivative transactions and similar agreements with major international financial institutions with A or higher credit ratings as issued by Standard & Poors Corporation. Our foreign currency and interest rate derivatives are comprised of over the counter forward contracts, swaps or options with major international financial institutions. Although our theoretical credit risk is the replacement cost at the then estimated fair value of these instruments, we believe that the risk of incurring credit risk losses is remote and that such losses, if any, would not be material. Non performance of the counterparties on the balance of all the foreign exchange and interest rate agreements would result in a write off of $135.9 at December 31, 2010. In addition, in the event of non performance by such counterparties, we would be exposed to market risk on the underlying items being hedged as a result of changes in foreign exchange and interest rates. 
 
