Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion (presented in millions, except per share amounts) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations." You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q to be filed in 2002. When used in this report, the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "targets," "estimates," "looks for," "looks to," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe") builds award winning software solutions for network publishing, including Web, ePaper, print, video, wireless and broadband applications. Its graphic design, imaging, dynamic media and authoring tools enable customers to create, manage, and deliver visually rich, reliable content. We license our technology to major hardware manufacturers, software developers, and service providers, and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of all sizes. We distribute our products through a network of distributors and dealers, VARs, systems integrators, and OEMs; direct to end users through Adobe call centers; and through our own Web site at www.adobe.com. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia. Revenue 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Revenue $ 1,229.7 (3 )% $ 1,266.4 25 % $ 1,015.4 Revenue is categorized into four major operating segments: Web Publishing, Cross media Publishing, ePaper Solutions, and OEM PostScript and Other. The Web Publishing, Cross media Publishing, and ePaper Solutions segments include application products revenue that is derived predominantly from shipments of application software programs marketed through retail, VAR, and OEM distribution channels, as well as direct to end users through Adobe call centers and our Web site. The OEM PostScript and Other segment includes licensing revenue, which is made up of royalties received from OEM customers who ship products containing Adobes PostScript technology. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2002, we have realigned our business segments. A newly named Graphics segment will in the future replace the former Web Publishing segment and will include revenues and direct expenses related to Adobe Illustrator. The Adobe GoLive and Web Collection products will be reported in the Cross media Publishing segment. The managements discussion and analysis that follows is based on our old segment reporting that was in effect throughout fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999. For more information on both our old and new segment reporting, please refer to Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 23  Revenue from our Web Publishing segment is derived primarily from the licensing of the following application products: Photoshop, Adobe Premiere, Photoshop Elements, Web Collection, After Effects, AlterCast, GoLive, Digital Video Collection, Adobe PhotoDeluxe, Streamline, Atmosphere, Adobe Dimensions, Adobe Viewer, and LiveMotion. Cross media Publishing revenue comes primarily from the licensing of the following application products: Illustrator, Design Collection, Adobe Publishing Collection, PageMaker, FrameMaker, Adobe Type products, InDesign, Adobe Acrobat InProduction, Adobe Content Server, Adobe PDF Transit, Adobe Studio, eBooks, and PressReady. The ePaper Solutions segment is derived from the licensing of Adobe Acrobat software and other Acrobat related technologies. During fiscal 2001, overall revenue decreased 3%, or $36.7 million, compared to fiscal 2000, primarily due to adverse economic conditions, especially in the US, and a decline in revenue from our Web Publishing, Cross media Publishing, and OEM PostScript and Other segments. Revenue from our Web Publishing segment decreased 10%, or $54.1 million, from $536.6 million in fiscal 2000 to $482.5 million in fiscal 2001. The decrease in revenue from this segment was primarily due to severe economic pressure on the creative publishing professional market, which resulted in a decline in revenue from our Photoshop product. Also contributing to the decrease in revenue in this segment in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 were the following factors: decreased revenue from our GoLive and Web Collection products, due to declines in the web layout and web animation products market; decreased revenue from our PhotoDeluxe product due to product lifecycle timing; and decreased revenue from our LiveMotion product due to competitive factors and product lifecycle timing. Our After Effects product also experienced a decline in revenue despite its new version release in the second quarter of fiscal 2001. The decrease in revenue in this segment was partially offset by an increase in revenue from the following products: Photoshop Elements, which was first released in April of fiscal 2001; Digital Video Collection, due to the growth of the digital video market; and Adobe Premiere, due to the new version release of Adobe Premiere 6.0 in January 2001. Revenue from our Cross media Publishing segment decreased 10%, or $40.0 million, from $390.5 million in fiscal 2000 to $350.5 million in fiscal 2001. The decrease was partially due to a decline in revenue from our Illustrator and Publishing Collections products throughout fiscal year 2001 due to product lifecycle timings, which more than offset the revenue from their new version releases in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. There were also decreases in revenue from our FrameMaker and InDesign products, due to product lifecycle timing, and our Type product, due to decreased marketing activities. Lastly, we experienced a decline in revenue from our PageMaker product in the first half of fiscal 2001, which more than offset the revenue from the new version release of PageMaker 7.0 in the third quarter of fiscal 2001. The decrease in revenue from this segment was partially offset by an increase in revenue from our Adobe Design Collection product due to increased marketing and promotional activities throughout the year. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment decreased 20%, or $26.7 million, from $131.5 million in fiscal 2000 to $104.8 million in fiscal 2001, due to the following factors: continued weakness in the print business, customer transition from paper based processes to electronic workflows, renegotiated pricing with certain OEM customers, and the outsourcing of certain OEM accounts to a third party solution provider. The decrease in revenue from the above mentioned segments in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was partially offset by an increase of 40%, or $84.1 million, in our ePaper Solutions segment, as it increased from $207.8 million in fiscal 2000 to $291.9 million in fiscal 2001, due to the release of Acrobat 5.0 in the second quarter of fiscal 2001, as well as the continuing movement from paper based processes to electronic workflows adopted by enterprises and government agencies. During fiscal 2000, overall revenue increased 25% compared to fiscal 1999, driven primarily by increased licensing of products in our Web Publishing, ePaper Solutions, and Cross media Publishing segments. Our Web Publishing segment provided the majority of the revenue growth in fiscal 2000, as it grew 36% from $394.1 million in fiscal 1999 to $536.6 million in fiscal 2000. The increase in revenue from this segment was primarily driven by the strength of our Photoshop 5.5 product during the first three quarters of fiscal 2000 and the release of our Photoshop 6.0 product in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000. 24 Also contributing to the growth in this segment in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 was the increased revenue from our Web and Dynamic Media Collection products, which were first introduced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, and increased licensing of our LiveMotion, Adobe Premiere, After Effects, GoLive, and ActiveShare products. The increase in revenue in this segment was partially offset by a decline in revenue from our PageMill and PhotoDeluxe products, due to product lifecycle timing and reduced pricing. Revenue from our ePaper Solutions segment increased 61% from $129.3 million in fiscal 1999 to $207.8 million in fiscal 2000 due to the continuing penetration of Acrobat and its related technologies into major industry sectors and various government agencies. Revenue from our Cross media Publishing segment increased 10% from $353.9 million in fiscal 1999 to $390.5 million in fiscal 2000. This $36.6 million increase was primarily due to the new release of Illustrator 9.0 in the third quarter of fiscal 2000. This segment also benefited from the new release of FrameMaker 6.0 in the second quarter of fiscal 2000, as well as increased revenue from our Adobe Design Collection, Adobe Type Manager, Acrobat InProduction, and PressReady products. The increase in revenue from this segment was partially offset by a decline in revenue from our Adobe Publishing Collection product, primarily due to the introduction of our new Adobe Web, Dynamic Media, and Design Collection products, and a decline in revenue in both our InDesign product, due to slower adoption of this product in fiscal 2000 compared to the adoption rate upon the initial release of this product in fiscal 1999, and our PageMaker products, due to product lifecycle timing. The increase in revenue from the above mentioned segments in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 was partially offset by a 5% decline in revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment, as it decreased from $138.2 million in fiscal 1999 to $131.5 million in fiscal 2000. Revenue from this segment decreased in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 due to lower royalty rates paid by our OEMs and the ongoing weakness in the monochrome laser printer market as a result of the following factors: loss of royalty revenue from Hewlett Packard Companys ("HP") desktop monochrome laser printer division, which has been incorporating a clone version of Adobe PostScript software into its products since the fall of 1997; a decline in the average selling price of monochrome laser printers; and an increase in the use of inkjet printers, resulting in weakness in the monochrome laser printer market. We categorize our geographic results into three major market regions: the Americas, EMEA, and Asia. In fiscal 2001, revenue generated in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia represented 48%, 27%, and 25% of total revenue, respectively, compared to 52%, 26%, and 22% of total revenue, respectively generated in both fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999. Overall, revenue from our application products on the Windows platform increased 9% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, and revenue from our application products on the Macintosh platform decreased by 21% in fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999, revenue from our application products on the Windows platform increased 39%, and revenue from our application products on the Macintosh platform increased 15% during the same period. In fiscal 2001, the Windows and Macintosh platforms accounted for 70% and 30%, respectively, of application products revenue, excluding platform independent and UNIX products, compared to 63% and 37%, respectively, in fiscal 2000, and 58% and 42%, respectively, in fiscal 1999. We expect the trend towards the Windows platform to continue in the foreseeable future. 25 Direct Costs 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Direct costs $ 81.5 (7 )% $ 87.3 (8 )% $ 94.5 Percentage of total revenue 6.6 % 6.9 % 9.3 % Direct costs include product packaging, third party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs and acquired technologies, hosted server costs, and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Direct costs decreased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, primarily due to lower third party royalties, mainly associated with our PostScript and Type products revenue. In addition, direct costs also decreased in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 due to lower material costs. The decrease in direct costs in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was partially offset by an increase in hosted server costs, due to the launch of Adobe Studio in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. Direct costs also decreased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999, primarily due to lower localization and royalty costs, as well as a reduction in material costs as a result of our ongoing cost improvement program. For fiscal 2002, we anticipate that gross margin will be approximately 92% of revenue after the proposed acquisition of Accelio Corporation ("Accelio"). Operating Expenses Research and Development 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Research and development $ 224.1 (7 )% $ 240.2 22 % $ 197.5 Percentage of total revenue 18.2 % 19.0 % 19.4 % Research and development expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs, and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses decreased $16.1 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, primarily due to decreased incentive compensation expenses and lower company bonuses. In addition, research and development expenses also decreased due to lower contractor and professional fees as less development work was performed through outside sources. These decreases were partially offset by increased salary and benefit expenses related to headcount growth to support product development efforts. Research and development expenses increased $42.7 million, or 22%, in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999, primarily due to higher incentive compensation expenses associated with the improvement in our financial performance in fiscal 2000 over fiscal 1999 and higher salary and benefit expenses as a result of headcount growth. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long term opportunities available in the new Network Publishing economy and make significant investments in the development of our application software products, including those targeted for the growing digital imaging and digital video franchises. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2002. As communicated on December 13, 2001, we are targeting research and development expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2002 to be 20 21% of revenue. For fiscal year 2002, we are targeting such expenditures also to be 20 21% of revenue. 26 Sales and Marketing 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Sales and marketing $ 403.7 0.6 % $ 401.2 22 % $ 328.5 Percentage of total revenue 32.8 % 31.7 % 32.3 % Sales and marketing expenses include salary and benefit expenses, bonuses, sales commissions, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, customer support, and distribution personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations, and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.5 million, or 0.6%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, as a result of higher salary and benefit expenses related to headcount growth and increased investments in product specific marketing activities. These increases were offset by a decrease in incentive compensation expenses and company bonuses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $72.7 million, or 22%, in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 as a result of higher incentive compensation expenses and higher outsourced technical support and order management fees. In addition, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 due to our focus on general corporate brand advertising, as well as higher marketing, public relations, and trade show activities associated with new product releases. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2002 to support investments in certain areas including digital imaging, digital video, and ePaper based businesses. As communicated on December 13, 2001, for the first quarter of fiscal 2002, our sales and marketing expense target is approximately 34 35% of revenue. For fiscal year 2002, we are targeting such expenditures also to be approximately 34 35% of revenue. General and Administrative 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 General and administrative $ 115.6 (0.8 )% $ 116.5 12 % $ 103.6 Percentage of total revenue 9.4 % 9.2 % 10.2 % General and administrative expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for the finance, human resources, legal, information services, and executive personnel of Adobe. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.9 million, or 0.8%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, due to decreased incentive compensation expenses and lower bad debt expense. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in salary and benefit expenses as a result of increased headcount. General and administrative expenses increased $13.0 million, or 12%, in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999, primarily due to higher salary and benefit expenses as a result of increased headcount, and higher bad debt expense and legal fees. The increase was partially offset by decreases in professional fees and depreciation expense. We expect that general and administrative spending will increase in absolute dollars in fiscal 2002. As communicated on December 13, 2001, for the first quarter of fiscal 2002, our general and administrative expense target is approximately 10 11% of revenue. For fiscal year 2002, we are targeting such expenditures to be approximately 9 10% of revenue. 27 Restructuring and Other Charges 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Restructuring and other charges $ 12.1 114 % $ 5.6 (76 )% $ 23.0 Percentage of total revenue 1.0 % 0.4 % 2.3 % In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we implemented a restructuring plan to realign our workforce to our future strategic goals and to align our resources with our fiscal year 2002 revenue targets. We believe this restructuring will enable us to increase our investment in digital imaging, digital video, and ePaper based businesses in fiscal 2002. As part of the restructuring program, we implemented a reduction in force of 247 positions, affecting organizations throughout the company. The reductions came predominantly from sales and marketing and in our North American operations, and as of November 30, 2001, the majority of these terminations were completed. The total restructuring and other charges was $12.1 million, which was all related to severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force. Of the $12.1 million in charges, $9.6 million remained accrued at November 30, 2001. The majority of these severance payments will be paid in early 2002. For more information, see Note 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2000, restructuring and other charges consisted of $6.3 million of other charges relating to the disposal of certain equipment and one time litigation related expenses, and a credit of $0.7 million related to the fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998 restructuring programs. The $0.7 million credit was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2000, as we revised our estimates of the total costs associated with the fiscal 1999 and 1998 restructuring programs. The credit primarily reflected lower than estimated severance and related charges attributable to employees whose positions were eliminated as a result of the restructurings but who were able to find alternative employment within Adobe. The remaining credit was due to lower than expected charges related to vacating leased facilities. (For detailed information, see Note 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). During fiscal 1999 we implemented two different restructuring programs. These separate restructuring programs were directly focused on improving our competitive position as well as enhancing Adobes allocation of resources. The two fiscal 1999 restructuring programs resulted in total charges of approximately $19.7 million, which included severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force and charges for vacating leased facilities. During fiscal 1999, we revised our estimate of the total costs associated with the restructuring programs implemented during the year, resulting in an adjustment to the restructuring accrual of approximately $3.2 million. The adjustment was due to lower than estimated severance and related charges attributable to employees whose positions were eliminated as a result of the restructurings but who were able to find alternative employment within Adobe, and lower than expected charges related to vacating leased facilities. In addition, we recorded adjustments during fiscal 1999 related to prior year restructuring programs in the amount of $1.9 million. The $1.9 million adjustment was primarily due to both our success in terminating a lease agreement earlier than the contract term specified and the expiration of other lease termination costs for two facilities. Other charges recorded in fiscal 1999 of $8.4 million included $2.0 million associated with the cancellation of a contract and $2.2 million for accelerated depreciation related to the adjustment of the useful life of certain assets as a result of decisions made by management as part of the restructuring program. Additionally, we incurred a nonrecurring compensation charge totaling $2.6 million for a terminated employee and incurred consulting fees of $1.6 million to assist in the restructuring of our operations. As of November 30, 2001 no obligations existed related to the fiscal 1999 and 1998 restructuring programs. 28 Acquired In Process Research and Development 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Acquired in process research and development $ (100 )% $ 0.5 (87 )% $ 3.6 Percentage of total revenue % % 0.4 % In fiscal 2000, we recorded $0.5 million of acquired in process research and development related to our acquisition of Glassbook, Inc. ("Glassbook"). The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16 ("APB 16"). Based on an independent appraisers valuation, $0.5 million of the total $28.0 million purchase price was allocated to in process research and development due to the state of the development and the uncertainty of the technology. The ongoing project at Glassbook at the time of the purchase included the development of the Glassbook Reader and the Glassbook Content Server products. We released new products that contained the purchased technology in April 2001, with Acrobat eBook Reader 2.1 and Adobe Content Server 2.0. Acquired in process research and development of $3.6 million in fiscal 1999 included $3.0 million and $0.6 million associated with the acquisitions of Attitude Software, LLC ("Attitude Software") and Photomerge Technology ("Photomerge"), respectively. The following is a summary of the projects acquired in the acquisitions and the assumptions used in determining the value of the in process research and development costs. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we acquired substantially all of the assets, consisting of intellectual property, of Attitude Software. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with APB 16, and substantially all of the purchase price of $3.0 million cash was allocated to in process research and development and expensed at the time of acquisition. The ongoing project at Attitude Software at the time of the purchase included the development of the 3D Anarchy authoring product. We purchased this technology to incorporate it into future versions of our existing Adobe products to further enhance the feature sets and user interface contained within the products. We are incorporating the purchased technology into one of our products, which has not yet been released. At the date we acquired Attitude Software, it was estimated that 50% of the development effort had been completed and that the remaining 50% of the development effort would take approximately 18 months to complete and would cost $1.8 million. The efforts required to complete the development of the technology primarily related to additional design efforts to integrate the technology into several of Adobes products, finalization of coding, and completion testing. The value of the in process technology was determined by estimating the projected net cash flows related to products the technology would be integrated into, including costs to complete the development of the technology and the future net revenues that may be earned from the products, excluding the value attributed to the existing technology with the products prior to the integration of the purchased technology. These cash flows were discounted back to their net present value using a discount rate of 20%, exclusive of the value attributable to the use of the in process technologies in future products. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we acquired substantially all of the assets, consisting of intellectual property, of Photomerge. In connection with the acquisition of Photomerge, 100% of the purchase price, or $0.6 million cash, was allocated to in process research and development due to the early stage of development and the uncertainty of the technology. This purchased technology was incorporated into our Photoshop Elements product, which we released in April 2001. 29 Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangibles 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles $ 14.3 104 % $ 7.0 45 % $ 4.8 Percentage of total revenue 1.2 % 0.6 % 0.5 % Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles increased $7.3 million, or 104%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, due to a full year of amortization of Glassbook goodwill and purchased intangibles. Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles in fiscal 2000 and 1999 primarily related to the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of GoLive Systems, Inc. and a related partnership (together "GoLive Systems") in December 1998. Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles was higher in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 primarily due to the additional amortization related to the acquisition of Glassbook in September 2000. (For further information, see Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Nonoperating Income (Loss) Investment Gain (Loss) 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Investment gain (loss) $ (93.4 ) (751 )% $ 14.3 (84 )% $ 88.9 Percentage of total revenue (7.6 )% 1.1 % 8.8 % Investment gain (loss) consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable equity securities, and equity method gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. During fiscal 2001, investment losses consisted of other than temporary writedowns related to our short term investments in Tumbleweed Communications Corp. ("Tumbleweed"), Salon.com, Engage, Inc., Liquent, Inc. (formerly ESPS, Inc.), Avantgo, Inc., Viewpoint Corp., and Virage, Inc. of $53.1 million. These losses were partially offset by gains from the sale of our marketable equity securities totaling $20.1 million, of which $0.6 million of premiums were recorded in interest and other income. We also recorded net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $59.8 million. As of November 30, 2001, our short term investments included marketable equity securities of $37.8 million and our long term investments included investments in Adobe Ventures and other cost method investments of $31.7 million. These securities are inherently risky and we may experience further deterioration in fair value in the future. During fiscal 2000, we recorded investment gains related to the sale of a portion of our investment in Tumbleweed Communications Corp. ("Tumbleweed") and Digimarc Corporation for $10.4 million and $2.2 million, respectively. Additionally, we recorded investment gains related to the mark to market valuation adjustment for AvantGo, Inc. totaling $13.0 million and other net gains related to various other Adobe Ventures investments activities totaling approximately $15.0 million. These gains were partially offset by investment losses related to the writedown of our investments in Engage, Inc.; Classmates Online, Inc. (formerly eCircles, Inc.); Salon.com; and Impresse Corporation, totaling approximately $26.3 million. In fiscal 1999, we recorded a realized gain of $58.4 million related to the sale of our investment in Vignette Corporation. We also recorded investment gains from mark to market adjustments totaling $17.8 million, $10.4 million, and $7.0 million related to investments in ESPS, Inc.; DigitalThink, Inc.; and Tumbleweed, respectively. These gains were partially offset by an investment loss of $5.2 million related to 30 the acquisition of PointCast, Inc., a former investee of Adobe, by idealab!s Launchpad Technologies, Inc. ("idealab!"). In connection with the acquisition, we exchanged our shares of PointCast, Inc. for approximately 542,000 shares of idealab! (which has since become InfoGate, Inc.). Additionally, we recorded a net gain totaling $0.5 million related to mark to market adjustments of various other Adobe Ventures investments. We are uncertain of future investment gains or losses as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies and market valuations. Interest and Other Income 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Interest and other income $ 21.9 3 % $ 21.3 (17 )% $ 25.7 Percentage of total revenue 1.8 % 1.7 % 2.5 % Interest and other income consists principally of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses and realized gains or losses on the disposal of assets. Interest and other income increased $0.6 million, or 3%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 primarily due to realized gains resulting from the sale of fixed income investments. Interest and other income also increased in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 due to higher average cash balances. The increase in interest and other income in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was partially offset by foreign currency losses. These foreign currency losses resulted from the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("SFAS 133"), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and subsequent recording of the cost of hedging foreign currency exposures in interest and other income. Interest and other income decreased $4.4 million, or 17%, in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999 as a result of more investments being made in tax exempt securities, resulting in lower interest income on a comparative pretax basis. In fiscal 2000, we also recorded foreign exchange transaction losses compared to foreign exchange transaction gains in fiscal 1999. In addition, other income was lower in fiscal 2000, as fiscal 1999 included a $5.7 million gain related to the sale of a corporate facility in Edinburgh, Scotland, in connection with the restructuring program announced in the second quarter of fiscal 1999. We expect interest and other income to decrease slightly to approximately $3.0 $4.0 million per quarter in fiscal 2002 due to a lower interest rate environment. We also believe that any increases in interest income may be offset by the cost of foreign currency purchased options as well as market price volatility under our implementation of SFAS 133. Further, we believe that our cash balances could also be reduced in fiscal 2002 due to the strategic purchase of companies, products, or technologies and our ongoing stock repurchase programs. Income Tax Provision 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Income tax provision $ 101.3 (35 )% $ 155.9 14 % $ 136.7 Percentage of total revenue 8.2 % 12.3 % 13.5 % Effective tax rate 33.0 % 35.1 % 36.5 % Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2001 from fiscal 2000 and from fiscal 1999 to fiscal 2000, due to tax benefits associated with the restructuring of our international operations. As communicated on December 13, 2001, we have targeted our effective tax rate to decrease in fiscal 2002 to approximately 32%. 31 Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations We believe that in the future our results of operations could be affected by various factors, including: adverse changes in general economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business, including the recent slow down affecting the U.S., Europe, Japan, and potentially other geographic areas continuing adverse economic impact of the recent national tragedy on September 11, 2001 delays in shipment of our new products and major new versions of existing products corporate reductions in marketing expenditures which may result in lower demand for professional content creation and layout products lack of market acceptance of new products and upgrades introduction of new products by major competitors weakness in demand for application software and printers lack of growth in worldwide personal computer and printer sales and downward sales price adjustments renegotiation of royalty arrangements consolidation in the OEM printer business ongoing weakness in our printing business due to product transitions industry transitions to new business and information delivery models market risks associated with our equity investments (as discussed later under "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk") On December 13, 2001, we stated that we are targeting our revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2002 to be in the range of $265 to $280 million. On that day, we also stated the following operating model targets for the first quarter of fiscal 2002: gross margin of 92 93%, pro forma operating profit margin of 25 28%, research and development expenses of 20 21% of revenue, sales and marketing expenses of 34 35% of revenue, and general and administrative expenses of 10 11% of revenue. We further stated on December 13, 2001, that we expect our share count to be between 245 to 246 million shares, which collectively results in a pro forma earnings per share target range of $0.20 to $0.22, in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. On January 31, 2002, we reiterated our revenue and earnings per share targets for the first quarter of fiscal 2002 of $265 to $280 million and $0.20 to $0.22, respectively. The reaffirmation of these targets assumes that the third month of the quarter will be a typical seasonally strong February. Also on December 13, 2001, we reiterated our annual revenue target of $1.3 billion, gross margin target of 93%, and our pre tax pro forma operating profit margin target of 28% for fiscal year 2002 and a pro forma earnings per share target of approximately $1.03. Additionally, we have stated, the following operating model targets for fiscal 2002: research and development expenses of 20 21% of revenue, sales and marketing expenses of 34 35% of revenue, and general and administrative expenses of 9 10% of revenue. We have stated an effective tax rate target of 32%. We have also previously stated that we are targeting other income to be approximately $4.0 million per quarter. Due to the current interest rate environment, however, we have stated a revised target for interest and other income of approximately $3.0 $4.0 million per quarter in fiscal 2002. On February 1, 2002, we announced a proposed agreement to acquire Accelio Corporation. Based on an anticipated close date of March 2002, we are targeting incremental revenue associated with this acquisition of approximately $30.0 $35.0 million. In addition, with the acquisition of Accelio, we have lowered our gross margin target from 93% to 92%, and our pro forma operating profit margin target from 28% to 27%. Furthermore, we indicated that the acquisition would be dilutive to pro forma earnings per 32 share of $0.02 per share in fiscal year 2002. The proposed acquisition is subject to the execution of customary transaction documents and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the approval of Accelios shareholders and clearance of the acquisition by U.S. and Canadian regulatory authorities. If these conditions are not satisfied, we may not complete the acquisition. Initially the transaction was expected to close in March 2002. However, due to certain regulatory and timing requirements, we are now targeting to close in April 2002. In connection with this proposed acquisition, we may not be successful in integrating Accelio or developing products based on Accelios technology or expertise. We also may not be successful in integrating its distribution channels with ours. Additionally, we may face unanticipated expenses relating to the integration of Accelio personnel and its products, distribution channels, and administrative functions. We use these targets to assist us in making decisions about our allocation of resources and investments, not as predictions of future results. The targets reflect a number of assumptions, including assumptions about: product pricing and demand manufacturing costs and volumes the mix of application products and licensing revenue, full and upgrade products, distribution channels, and geographic distribution headcount increases These and many other factors described in this report affect our financial performance and may cause our future results, including results for the current quarter, to vary materially from these targets. In particular, the recent slow down in some geographic areas, primarily in the U.S., Europe, and Japan, has affected all of our product segments and may adversely affect our ability to achieve our revenue targets. We attribute this slow down, which is affecting all of our product segments, to weakening economic conditions. These adverse economic conditions in the U.S., Europe, Japan, and potentially other geographic markets may continue in the short term, and they may continue to adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Although there were also adverse conditions in other countries, the countries affected represent a much smaller portion of our revenue and thus have less impact on our operational results. Furthermore, if the economic slow down worsens or spreads to other geographic areas where we do business, it would likely cause our future results, including results for the first quarter of fiscal 2002, to vary materially from our targets. We plan to recruit key talent for our future growth. These plans to continue to invest in certain areas will require us to continue to hire additional employees. Competition for high quality personnel, especially highly skilled engineers, is extremely intense. Our ability to effectively manage this growth will require us to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and information management systems, and to attract, retain, motivate, and manage employees effectively; otherwise our business could be seriously harmed. Our ability to develop and market products, including upgrades of current products that successfully adapt to changing customer needs, may also have an impact on our results of operations. Our ability to extend our core technologies into new applications and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect our ability to develop these products. A portion of our future revenue will come from these new applications. Delays in product or upgrade introductions could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings, or stock price. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that these new products or upgrades will have on our revenue or results of operations. We hold equity investments that have recently experienced significant declines in market value. We also have investments, and may continue to make future investments, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products they have under development is typically in 33 the early stages and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income. For fiscal 2001, we recorded pre tax losses from marketable securities and other investments in privately held companies of $93.4 million, compared to pre tax gains in fiscal 2000 of $14.3 million. These amounts reflect realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable equity securities, and equity method gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. In fiscal 2001, decreases in the market prices of these securities resulted in a significant reduction in our pre tax income, and future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long term declines in value could reduce our net income in future periods. We are uncertain of future investment gains and losses, as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies. The market for our graphics and ePaper applications is intensely and increasingly competitive and is significantly affected by product introductions and market activities of industry competitors. Additionally, Microsoft has increased its presence in the low end consumer digital imaging/graphics market and the electronic document sharing markets. We believe that, due to Microsofts market dominance, any new Microsoft products in these markets will be highly competitive with our products. If competing new products achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results would suffer. In addition, we continue to expand into third party distribution channels, including VARs and systems integrators, in our effort to further broaden our customer base. As a result, the financial health of these third parties and our continuing relationships with them are becoming more important to our success. Some of these companies are thinly capitalized and may be unable to withstand changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these third parties substantially weakens or if our relationships with them deteriorate. Also, as we seek to further broaden our customer base in the enterprise, corporate business and consumer markets, we may not successfully adapt our application software distribution channels, which could cause our operating results to suffer. As we currently have limited experience in these markets, we believe we will need to recruit, train, and retain personnel with experience in these markets, and our failure to do so may harm our ability to penetrate these markets. We could experience decreases in average selling prices and some transitions in our distribution channels that could seriously harm our business. In some markets and for some products, we have adopted a strategy aiming to increase our market share and therefore may receive significantly less revenue from certain licensing arrangements than we otherwise would receive for licensing these products. Therefore, increased market penetration may in fact lead to lower revenue growth in these areas. While we believe that this potential market share increase will ultimately benefit us, this strategy could instead harm our business through reduced revenue growth. We generally offer our application based products on Macintosh, Windows, and UNIX platforms, and we generally offer our server based products on the Linux platform as well as these three platforms. To the extent that there is a slow down of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, our business could be harmed. We distribute our application products primarily through distributors, resellers, and retailers (collectively referred to as "distributors"). A significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two distributors. One of these distributors recently restructured its operations, reducing the number of facilities it operates, including those handling Adobe products, which may harm our operating results. In addition, we have revised our channel program to reduce the overall number of our distributors worldwide and focus our channel efforts on larger distributors. This revision of the channel program has resulted in an increase in our dependence on a smaller number of distributors selling through a larger amount of our products. Additionally, one of our goals is to increase our direct distribution of our products to end users through our online store located on our Web site at www.adobe.com. Any such increase in our direct revenue efforts will place us in increased competition with our channel distributors and with newer types of distribution of our products by online, Internet based resellers of our products. While we anticipate that the restructuring and streamlining of our product distribution channels and the increase in the scope of our 34 direct sales efforts will eventually improve our business by decreasing discounts or rebate programs provided to distributors, decreasing product returns, and shortening inventory cycles, these changes could instead seriously harm our business. We currently rely on five turnkey assemblers of our products, located in each major region we serve. If any turnkey assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any turnkey is interrupted or terminated for any other reason, we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products manufactured by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our business. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment experienced a 20% decline in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, primarily as a result of a decline in the print business. We expect this segment to continue to decline in fiscal 2002 relative to fiscal 2001, which may harm our business if the magnitude of the decline significantly exceeds our expectations. The continuing weakness in the economy is contributing to the decrease in revenue for the monochrome laser printers market in addition to the decline in average selling prices of monochrome laser printers and the increasing use of inkjet printers. In addition, customer transition from paper based processes to electronic workflows, renegotiated pricing with certain OEM customers, and the outsourcing of certain OEM accounts to a third party solution provider contributed to the decline in revenue in this segment. If another major customer also decided to incorporate a clone version instead of Adobe PostScript technology, it could seriously harm our business. Further, OEM partners on occasion seek to renegotiate their royalty arrangements. We evaluate these requests on a case by case basis. If an agreement is not reached, a customer may decide to pursue other options, which could result in lower licensing revenue for us. The Internet market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants that have introduced or developed products addressing authoring and communication over the Internet. As is typical in the case of a new and evolving industry, demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. The software industry addressing authoring and communications over the Internet is still developing. Standards defining Web graphics have not yet been fully adopted. In addition, new models for licensing software will be needed to accommodate new information delivery practices. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet (including security, reliability, ease of use and access, cost, and quality of service) remain unresolved and may affect the growth of Internet use, together with the software standards and electronic media employed in such markets. We intend to increase our investment in e business and enhanced marketing activities in an effort to achieve revenue growth, but we can provide no assurance that increased investment in this new market will result in increased revenue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and operating income from our customers located in Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. We generally experience lower revenue from our European operations in the third quarter because many customers reduce their purchasing activities in the summer months. Additionally, we are uncertain whether the recent weakness experienced in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America markets will continue in the foreseeable future due to possible currency devaluation and liquidity problems in these regions. While most of the revenue of our European subsidiaries had in the past been denominated in U.S. dollars, we now denominate revenue in euros in certain European countries. In addition, the majority of our revenue derived from Japan is denominated in yen, and the majority of all our subsidiaries operating expenses are denominated in their local currencies. As a result, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, the financial impact of such fluctuations has not been significant. Our hedging policy attempts to mitigate some of these risks, based on our best judgment of the appropriate trade offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. We have established a hedging program to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily of the Japanese yen and the euro. We regularly review our hedging program and will make adjustments based on our best judgment. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates. 35 In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third party rights, we have been, are currently, and may in the future be subject to complex, protracted litigation as part of our policy to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation. Adverse decisions in such litigation could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, or causing severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the "AICPA"), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect the reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Our accounting policies that may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: rules relating to software revenue recognition accounting for business combinations the valuation of in process research and development employee stock purchase plans stock option grants goodwill and other intangible assets accounting Changes to these rules or the questioning of current practices may have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. See the discussion under "Critical Accounting Policies" below for additional information about our critical accounting policies and some risks associated with these policies. New FASB guidelines relating to accounting for goodwill could make our acquisition related charges less predictable in any given reporting period. On July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," that establishes a new standard for accounting for goodwill acquired in a business combination. This Statement requires that goodwill and other intangibles with an indefinite useful life not be amortized, but be tested for impairment at least annually. It would continue to require recognition of goodwill as an asset but would not permit amortization of goodwill as previously required by APB Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets." Under SFAS 142, goodwill will be separately tested for impairment using a fair value based approach. Any required goodwill impairment charges will be presented as a separate line item within the operating section of the income statement. The shift from an amortization approach to an impairment approach would apply to previously recorded goodwill as well as goodwill arising from acquisitions completed after June 30, 2001. We are currently evaluating the impact of this Statement on our financial position and are planning to adopt this standard beginning in fiscal year 2003, as required. It is possible that in the future, we may incur less frequent, but larger, impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded, as well as goodwill arising out of potential future acquisitions. 36  Due to the factors noted above, our future earnings and stock price may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings, or any delay in the release of any product or upgrade, compared to analysts or investors expectations could cause, and has caused in the past, an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not learn of such shortfalls or delays until late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. Finally, we participate in a highly dynamic industry. In addition to factors specific to us, changes in analysts earnings estimates for us or our industry and factors affecting the corporate environment, our industry, or the securities markets in general will often result in significant volatility of our common stock price. Critical Accounting Policies We have identified the following as critical accounting policies to our company: revenue recognition, accounting for our marketable and non marketable fixed income and equity securities, and accounting for leases of property and equipment. Revenue Recognition We recognize application products revenue upon shipment, net of estimated returns, provided that collection is determined to be probable and no significant obligations remain. Application product revenue from distributors is subject to agreements allowing limited rights of return, rebates, and price protection. Accordingly, we reduce revenue recognized for estimated future returns, price protection when given, and rebates at the time the related revenue is recorded. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon historical rates of returns, inventory levels in the distribution channel, and other related factors. The estimates and reserves for rebates and price protection are based on historical rates. While management believes it can make reliable estimates for these matters, nevertheless unsold products in these distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences or technological obsolescence due to new operating environments, product updates or competing products. Accordingly, it is possible that these estimates will change in the near future or that the actual amounts could vary materially from our estimates and that the amounts of such changes could seriously harm our business. We provide free technical phone support to customers who are under warranty for support. We accrue the estimated cost of free technical phone support upon shipment of software and amortize the accrued internal and external cost of telephone support to sales and marketing expense. We also license software with post contract customer support ("PCS") for two years. PCS includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, a limited period of telephone support, updates, and bug fixes. Statement of Position 97 2 ("SOP 97 2"), "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended, generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on the relative fair value of the elements. The arrangement fee for multiple element arrangements is allocated to each element of the arrangement, such as maintenance and support services, based on the relative fair values of the elements. We determine the fair value of each element in multi element arrangements based on vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"). VSOE for each element is based on the price charged when the same element is sold separately. If evidence of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but evidence does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. Revenue allocated to maintenance and support is recognized ratably over the maintenance term (typically two years). We record OEM licensing revenue, primarily royalties, when OEM partners ship products incorporating Adobe software, provided collection of such revenue is deemed probable. We have no remaining obligations in relation to such licensing revenue. 37 We also recognize revenue under a subscription based model for our Adobe Studio website, which we launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis from fees received that month for providing software subscriptions for our hosted application. Deferred revenue includes customer advances under OEM licensing agreements and maintenance revenue for application products. We recognize deferred maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the contract, generally twenty four months. In cases where we will provide a specified free upgrade to an existing product, we defer revenue until the future obligation is fulfilled. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. We maintain allowances for potential credit losses and such losses have been within our expectations. Accounting for our Marketable and Non marketable Fixed Income and Equity Securities We classify all of our cash equivalents and short term investments that are free of trading restrictions, or become free of trading restrictions within one year, as "available for sale." We carry these investments at fair value, based on quoted market prices, and unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized when realized on our consolidated statements of income. We have a policy in place to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related writedown as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of income. For more information on our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, please refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our long term investments include direct investments and indirect investments in privately held companies. We own limited partnership interests in four venture capital limited partnerships, Adobe Ventures L.P.; Adobe Ventures II, L.P.; Adobe Ventures III, L.P., and Adobe Ventures IV, L.P. (collectively "Adobe Ventures"), that invest in early stage companies with innovative technologies. In addition to the potential for financial returns, our venture activities increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies, as well as expand our ecosystem of Adobe products and services. The partnerships are managed by Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures. The investments in Adobe Ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and accordingly, the investments are adjusted to reflect our share of Adobe Ventures investment income (loss) and dividend distributions. Adobe Ventures carry their investments in equity securities at estimated fair market value and unrealized gains and losses are included in investment income (loss). The stock of a number of technology investments held by the limited partnerships at November 30, 2001 are not publicly traded, and, therefore, there is no established market for their securities. As such, the fair value of these investments are determined by Granite Ventures using the most recent round of financing involving new non strategic investors, or estimates made by Granite Ventures. We have a policy in place to review the fair value of these investments held by Adobe Ventures on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying value of the investments in these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes, and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. public companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. If we believe that the carrying value of a company is carried at an amount in excess of fair value, it is our policy to record a reserve in addition to 38 our equity method of accounting and the related writedown is recorded as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of income. Estimating the fair value of non marketable equity investments in early stage technology companies is inherently subjective and may contribute to significant volatility in our reported results of operations. We recognize realized gains and losses upon sale or maturity of these investments using the specific identification method. For further information on our long term investments, please refer to Note 5 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Leases of Property and Equipment We entered into two operating lease agreements in 1999 and 2001 related to our headquarter office buildings in San Jose, CA. The agreements qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS 13, "Accounting for Leases," and, as such, the buildings are not included on our balance sheet. These agreements are subject to standard covenants, including liquidity, leverage, and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessors quarterly. We believe we will be able to meet our obligations under the agreements, but if we default on our commitments and are unable to remedy the default quickly enough, the lessors may terminate all remaining commitments, demand payment equal to the lessors investment, or require us to purchase, facilitate the sale of the buildings to a third party, or surrender the buildings. If we are required to purchase the buildings, this will decrease our cash available for working capital and require us to add the value of the buildings to our balance sheet. If we facilitate the sale or surrender the buildings, this could require us to find alternate facilities on terms that may not be as favorable as the current arrangement. As of November 30, 2001, we were in compliance with all covenants. For further information on these leases, please refer to our "Commitments" section under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We Disclose Pro Forma Financial Information We prepare and release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We also disclose and discuss certain pro forma financial information in the related earnings release and investor conference call. Our pro forma financial information does not include unusual or non recurring events or transactions, amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles, or gains and losses on investments in equity securities. We believe the disclosure of the pro forma financial information helps investors more meaningfully evaluate the results of our ongoing operations. However, we urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, and our quarterly earnings releases and compare that GAAP financial information with the pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls. 39 The following table shows the Companys pro forma results reconciled to the GAAP Consolidated Statement of Income for fiscal year ended November 30, 2001. Our pro forma results for the fiscal year 2001 exclude restructuring and other charges, amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles, and investment loss. Year ended November 30, 2001 GAAP income before income taxes $ 306,931 Restructuring and other charges 12,063 Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles 14,281 Investment loss 93,414 Pro forma income before income taxes 426,689 Income tax provision 140,807 Pro forma net income 285,882 Basic pro forma net income per share $ 1.20 Shares used in computing basic net income per share 238,461 Diluted net income per share $ 1.15 Shares used in computing diluted net income per share 249,145 Pro Forma Fair Value Disclosures on Employee Stock Plans We account for our employee stock plans, consisting of fixed stock option plans, an employee stock purchase plan, and a performance and restricted stock plan, using the intrinsic value method. Please see our Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the pro forma amounts of net income and net income per share that would have resulted if we accounted for our employee stock plans under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." Recent Accounting Pronouncements During July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 ("SFAS 141"), "Business Combinations." This Statement requires all business combinations to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and redefines goodwill and other intangibles that should be recognized separate from goodwill. SFAS 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. During July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." This Statement requires that goodwill and other intangibles with an indefinite useful life not be amortized, but be tested for impairment at least annually. SFAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001; however, for new business combinations that occur after June 30, 2001, SFAS 142 is effective for those transactions. We will adopt SFAS 142 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 142 on our financial statements and related disclosures. In June 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143 ("SFAS 143"), "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development, or normal use of the asset. As used in this Statement, a legal obligation results from existing law, statute, ordinance, written or oral contract, or by legal construction of a contract under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. SFAS 143 is 40 effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 143 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations for a Disposal of a Segment of a Business." SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We will adopt SFAS 144 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 144 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In November 2001, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on EITF No. 01 09, "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or a Reseller of the Vendors Products." EITF No. 01 09 addresses the accounting for consideration given by a vendor to a customer and is a codification of EITF No. 00 14, "Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives," EITF No. 00 22, "Accounting for "Points and Certain Other Time Based or Volume Based Sales Incentives Offers and Offers for Free Products or Services to be Delivered in the Future" and EITF No. 00 25, "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration Paid to a Reseller of the Vendors Products." We are evaluating the impact of EITF No. 01 09 and do not believe the adoption will have a material impact on our financial statements.  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 2001 Change 2000 Change 1999 Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $ 581.6 (14 )% $ 679.9 36 % $ 498.7 Working capital $ 453.7 (19 )% $ 563.3 59 % $ 355.4 Stockholders equity $ 617.0 (18 )% $ 752.5 47 % $ 512.2 Our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments consist principally of money market funds, municipal bonds, and marketable equity securities. All of our short term investments are classified as available for sale under the provisions of SFAS 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The securities are carried at fair market value with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized when realized on the consolidated statements of income. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments decreased $98.3 million, or 14%, from December 1, 2000, primarily due to the purchase of treasury stock in the amount of $485.1 million, the purchase of long term investments and other assets for $32.0 million, capital expenditures of $46.6 million, and the payment of dividends totaling $12.0 million. In addition, our short term investments decreased due to the writedown of certain short term marketable equity investments totaling $53.1 million and the sale of marketable equity investments with a cost basis of $7.8 million. These decreases were partially offset by cash generated from operations of $418.7 million and proceeds from the issuance of treasury stock related to the exercise of stock options under our stock option plans and sale of stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $87.5 million. Another source of cash included proceeds from the sale of equity securities of $31.5 million. Our existing cash, cash equivalent and investment balances may decline further during fiscal 2002, although we believe that our existing balances together with our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. If the global economy weakens further, the decline in cash, cash equivalents and investments balances may be greater than presently anticipated. 41 We expect to continue our investing activities, including expenditures for computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to purchase treasury stock and strategically acquire companies, products, or technologies. Adobes Board of Directors approved two separate two for one stock splits in the form of stock dividends of our common stock to stockholders effected October 24, 2000 and October 26, 1999. All share and per share amounts referred to in the consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to reflect these stock splits. We have paid cash dividends on our common stock each quarter since the second quarter of 1988. Adobes Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.0125 per common share for each of the four quarters in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999. The declaration of future dividends, whether in cash or in kind, is within the discretion of Adobes Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our results of operations and financial condition, and other factors. Stock Repurchase Program I On going Dilution Coverage To facilitate our stock repurchase program, which is designed to minimize dilution from employee stock plans, we sold put warrants to independent third parties in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999. Each put warrant entitles the holder to sell one share of Adobes common stock to Adobe at a specified price for cash or stock at Adobes option. Approximately 5.6 million, 7.0 million, and 10.3 million put warrants were written in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. At November 30, 2001, approximately 3.8 million put warrants were outstanding that expire through July 2002, with an average exercise price of $22.28 per share, resulting in a total potential cash outlay of approximately $84.0 million in fiscal 2002 if all puts warrants are exercised. In addition, in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, we purchased call options from independent third parties that entitled us to buy 3.9 million, 4.2 million, and 4.9 million shares, respectively, of our common stock on certain dates at specified prices. At November 30, 2001, approximately 2.6 million call options were outstanding that expire on various dates through July 2002 with an average exercise price of $24.09 per share, resulting in a total potential cash outlay of approximately $63.3 million in fiscal 2002 if all calls options are exercised. Currently, all put warrants have a corresponding call option with an identical expiry date. Consequently, either the call option or put warrant, but not both, will be exercised. We repurchased approximately 5.9 million, 7.2 million, and 22.4 million shares in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively, at a cost of $319.9 million, $255.5 million, and $448.7 million, respectively. Stock Repurchase Program II Additional Authorization above Dilution Coverage In September 1997, Adobes Board of Directors authorized, subject to certain business and market conditions, the purchase of up to 60.0 million shares of our common stock over a two year period. This program was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 1999. Under this program, we repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares in fiscal 1999 at a cost of $30.5 million. In April 1999, the Board authorized a 5.0 million share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase shares in the open market and enter into contracts to repurchase shares during future quarters by selling put warrants and buying call options. During fiscal 2001, approximately 4.9 million put warrants were written and 3.5 million call options were purchased at prices ranging from $32.60 to $39.58. As of November 30, 2001, there were no put warrants or options outstanding in this program. During fiscal 2001, we repurchased approximately 4.7 million shares at a cost of $165.2 million. We did not repurchase any shares under this program in fiscal 2000. 42 In addition to the April 1999 5.0 million share repurchase program, our Board of Directors authorized in March 2001, subject to certain business and market conditions, the purchase of up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a two year period. We have not made any purchases under this 5.0 million share repurchase program. Combined Programs Our put and call option contracts provide that we, at our option, can settle with physical delivery or net shares equal to the difference between the exercise price and the value of the option as determined by the contract. For more information on our puts and calls, please see Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Commitments Our principal commitments as of November 30, 2001 consist of obligations under operating leases, a line of credit agreement, a real estate financing agreement, venture investing activities, royalty agreements, and various service agreements. We expect to fulfill all of the below commitments from our working capital. Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2025. Rent expense, net of sublease income, for these leases aggregated $22.0 million, $25.6 million, and $29.4 million during fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. As of November 30, 2001, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease income, are as follows: 2002 $29.6 million; 2003 $32.3 million; 2004 $35.7 million; 2005 $28.5 million; 2006 $17.0 million; and $33.2 million thereafter. In September 2001, we entered into a real estate development agreement for the construction of an office building in downtown San Jose, California. Under the agreement, the lessor will finance up to $117.0 million over a two year period, toward the construction and associated costs of the building. As part of the agreement, we entered into a five year lease beginning upon completion of the building. We have an option to purchase the building at any time during the term for an amount equal to the total investment of the lessor. The agreement and lease are subject to standard covenants including liquidity, leverage and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessor quarterly. As of November 30, 2001, we were in compliance with all covenants. In case of a default, the lessor may terminate all remaining commitments, demand payment equal to the lessors investment, or require that we purchase, facilitate the sale of the building to a third party, or surrender the building. The agreement qualifies for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS 13, and, as such, the building and the related obligation are not included on our balance sheet, but the lease payments are reflected in the schedule of future minimum lease payments. At the end of the lease term, we can either purchase the building for an amount equal to the lessors investment, which will be approximately $117.0 million, request to extend the maturity date of the lease or remarket the building. If we elect to remarket the building, we are obligated to arrange the sale of the building to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lessors investment, up to a maximum recourse amount as set forth in the lease. The lessor is a multi asset leasing company with a substantive net worth, not a special purpose entity. In August 1999, Adobe entered into a five year lease agreement for our corporate headquarters office buildings in San Jose, California. Under the agreement, we have an option to purchase the buildings at any time during the lease term for $142.5 million, which is the total investment of the lessor. The lease is subject to standard covenants including liquidity, leverage and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessor quarterly. As of November 30, 2001, we were in compliance with all covenants. In case of a default, 43 the lessor may demand payment equal to the lessors investment or that we surrender the buildings. The agreement qualifies for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS 13 and, as such, the buildings and the related obligation are not included on our balance sheet, but the lease payments are reflected in the schedule of future minimum lease payments. At the end of the lease term, we can either purchase the buildings for an amount equal to the lessors investment, which is approximately $142.5 million, or terminate the lease. If we elect to terminate, we are obligated to use our best efforts to arrange the sale of the buildings to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lessors investment, up to a maximum guaranteed residual amount as set forth in the lease. The lessor is a multi asset leasing company with a substantive net worth, not a special purpose entity. Line of Credit In August 1999, Adobe entered into two unsecured revolving credit facilities, of $100.0 million each, with a group of banks, for general corporate purposes, subject to certain financial covenants. One of the facilities expired in August 2001 and was not renewed, and the other $100.0 million facility expires in August 2002. Outstanding balances would accrue interest at London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin that is based on our financial ratios. There were no outstanding balances on the credit facility as of November 30, 2001. In addition, as of November 30, 2001, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. We believe that if our line of credit is canceled or amounts are not available under the line, our financial results, liquidity, or capital resources would not be adversely impacted. Under the terms of the line of credit agreement, corporate headquarters lease agreement, and real estate financing agreement, we may pay cash dividends unless an event of default has occurred or we do not meet certain financial ratios. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense was approximately $14.1 million, $20.8 million, and $24.5 million in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. Adobe Ventures We have commitments to the Adobe Venture limited partnerships. The following table shows the capital commitments and the capital contributed as of November 30, 2001: Capital Commitment Capital Contributed Adobe Ventures L.P. $ 40,000,000 $ 40,475,757 Adobe Ventures II, L.P. $ 40,000,000 $ 36,947,363 Adobe Ventures III, L.P. $ 60,000,000 $ 56,162,222 Adobe Ventures IV, L.P. $ 100,000,000 $ 18,292,333 The capital commitment is the amount that Adobe has agreed to contribute to the Partnership. The capital commitment amount is contributed over the term of each Partnership, which is ten years. We can cease funding at any time after the earlier of: a) two years after the effective date of the Partnership or b) the date on which the Company has made capital contributions to the Partnership in an amount in excess of $10.0 million, $10.0 million, $20.0 million, and $33.0 million for Adobe Ventures L.P., Adobe Ventures II, L.P., Adobe Ventures III, L.P., and Adobe Ventures IV, L.P., respectively. In addition to these venture partnerships, we have direct investments in public and privately held companies. In total, as of November 30, 2001, we have invested $194.9 million through our venture partnerships and direct investments. As of November 30, 2001, net returns were $354.3 million, including stock dividends and net gains in market value of investments. 44  Legal Actions We are engaged in certain legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that we have adequate legal defenses and that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Derivatives and Financial Instruments (Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk) Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments We transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily in certain European countries and Japan. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure from movements in foreign currency exchange rates. This exposure is primarily related to yen denominated licenses in Japan, and beginning in fiscal 2001, euro denominated licenses in certain European countries. Our Japanese operating expenses are in yen, and our European operating expenses are in euro, which mitigates a portion of the exposure related to yen and euro denominated licenses. In addition, we hedge firmly committed transactions using forward contracts. We also hedge a percentage of forecasted international revenue with forward and purchased option contracts. At November 30, 2001, total outstanding contracts included $98.3 million in foreign currency forward exchange contracts and purchased put option contracts with a notional value of $82.3 million. All contracts expire at various times through May 2002. Our hedging policy is designed to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements, and we expect any gain or loss in the hedging portfolio to be offset by a corresponding gain or loss in the underlying exposure being hedged. These contracts do subject us to risk of accounting gains and losses; however, the gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. The bank counterparties in these contracts expose us to credit related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk we only contract with high quality counterparties with specific minimum rating requirements. In addition, our hedging policy establishes maximum limits for each counterparty. Economic Hedging Hedges of Forecasted Transactions We use option and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain operational ("cash flow") exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have a duration between three to twelve months. Such cash flow exposures result from portions of our forecasted revenues denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar ("USD"), primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We enter into these foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecasted product licensing revenue in the normal course of business, and accordingly, they are not speculative in nature. We record changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until the forecasted transaction occurs. When the forecasted transaction occurs, we reclassify the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income at that time. For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2001, there were no such net gains or losses recognized in other income relating to hedges of forecasted transactions that did not occur. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying forecasted transactions. The changes in fair value of the derivatives are intended to offset changes in the expected cash flows from the forecasted transactions. We record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments 45 in other income on the consolidated statement of income. The time value of purchased derivative instruments is deemed to be ineffective and is recorded in other income over the life of the contract. Balance Sheet Hedging Hedging of Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities We hedge our net recognized foreign currency assets and liabilities with forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative instruments hedge assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recorded as other income (loss). These derivative instruments do not subject us to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivatives offset gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. At November 30, 2001, the outstanding balance sheet hedging derivatives had maturities of 60 days or less. A sensitivity analysis was performed on all of our foreign exchange derivatives as of November 30, 2001. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value resulting from a 10% and 15% shift in the value of exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. A 10% and 15% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar (and a corresponding decrease in the value of the hedged foreign currency asset) would lead to an increase in the fair value of our financial hedging instruments by $16.0 million and $23.9 million, respectively. Conversely, a 10% and 15% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar would result in a decrease in the fair value of these financial instruments by $12.5 million and $18.1 million, respectively. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. As a general rule, we do not use financial instruments to hedge local currency denominated operating expenses in countries where a natural hedge exists. For example, in many countries the local currency product licenses substantially offsets the local currency denominated operating expenses. We assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency exposures, primarily related to operating expenses, on an ongoing basis. We regularly review our hedging program and may as part of this review determine at any time to change our hedging program. Equity Investments We are exposed to equity price risk on our portfolio of marketable equity securities. As of November 30, 2001, our total equity holdings in publicly traded companies were valued at $37.8 million compared to $90.2 million at December 1, 2000, a decrease of 58%. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the fair values of these securities could experience further adverse changes in the near term. We have a policy in place to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related writedown in our consolidated statements of income. The following table represents the potential decrease in fair values of our marketable equity securities that are sensitive to changes in the stock market. Fair value deteriorations of minus 50%, 35%, and 15% were selected based on the probability of their occurrence. 46 Potential decrease to the value of securities given X% decrease in each stocks price (50%) (35%) (15%) Fair Value as of November 30, 2001 Marketable equity securities $ (18.9 ) $ (13.2 ) $ (5.7 ) $ 37.8 Equity Forward Contracts We also have a policy to hedge a certain portion of our equity holdings in publicly traded companies. From time to time, we have entered into forward contracts to sell portions of our equity holdings in future periods. We account for these forward contracts as "Fair Value Hedges," in accordance with SFAS 133 and mark them to market at the end of each period, offsetting changes in the fair market value of the equities being hedged. An increase (decrease) in the market value of the underlying equities will result in a corresponding decrease (increase) in the value of the forward contract. We have no outstanding forward contracts hedging marketable equity securities remaining as of November 30, 2001. As of December 1, 2000, the value of our forward contracts hedging equity securities was $10.7 million. Fixed Income Investments At November 30, 2001, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those classified as cash equivalents, of $404.1 million compared to $369.7 million at December 1, 2000, an increase of 9%. These securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of our fixed income investments. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of November 30, 2001. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over six month and twelve month time horizons. Potential decrease to the value of fixed income securities given X% increase in interest rates. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (2.3 ) $ (4.5 ) $ (6.8 ) 12 month horizon $ (2.1 ) $ (4.1 ) $ (6.2 ) We do not currently have any derivative financial instruments outstanding to manage interest rate risks. However, we have established policies and procedures to allow entering into derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk if appropriate. We also limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk by establishing and strictly monitoring clear policies and guidelines for our fixed income portfolios. At the present time, the maximum duration of all portfolios is limited to 2.3 years. The guidelines also establish credit quality standards, limits on exposure to any one security issue, limits on exposure to any one issuer, and limits on exposure to the type of instrument. Due to the limited duration and credit risk criteria established in our guidelines, we do not expect the exposure to interest rate risk and credit risk to be material. Privately Held Investments We have direct investments, as well as indirect investments through Adobe Ventures, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, and we could lose a substantial part of our entire initial investment in these companies. 47 We have a policy in place to review privately held investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying amount and economic viability of these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes, and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. public companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. If we believe that the carrying value of an investment is carried at an amount in excess of fair value, it is our policy to record a reserve in addition to our equity method of accounting and the related writedown is recorded as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of income. Facility Leases We are exposed to interest rate risk associated with leases of our facilities whose payments are tied to the LIBOR and have evaluated the hypothetical changes in lease obligations arising from selected hypothetical changes in LIBOR. Market changes reflected immediate hypothetical parallel increases in the LIBOR curve of plus or minus 50, 100, and 150 basis points for a twelve month period. Based on this analysis, such charges would not be material to our results of operations or financial position.  

