Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion (presented in millions, except per share amounts) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements including, but not limited to, those related to product and marketing plans, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors That May Affect Our Future Performance." You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q to be filed in 2003. When used in this report, the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "targets," "estimates," "looks for," "looks to," and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding Adobes focus for the future, are generally intended to identi fy forward looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe" or the "Company") offers a line of software for consumers, businesses, and creative professional customers. Our products enable customers to create, manage and deliver visually rich, compelling and reliable content. We license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers, and service providers, and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of all sizes. We distribute our products through a network of distributors and dealers, value added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators, and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"); direct to end users; and through our own website at www.adobe.com. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia. Our software runs on Microsoft Windows, Apple Macintosh, Linux, UNIX, Palm OS, Pocket PC, and Symbian platforms. Revenue 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Revenue Products $1,153.2 (6 )% $1,229.7 (3 )% $1,266.4 Services and support 11.6 100 $1,164.8 (5 )% $1,229.7 (3 )% $1,266.4 We have four reportable segments that offer different product lines: Graphics, Cross media Publishing, ePaper Solutions, and OEM PostScript and Other. The Graphics segment provides users with software for creating, editing and enhancing digital images and photographs, digital video, animations, graphics, and illustrations. The Cross media Publishing segment provides software for professional page layout, professional Web page layout, technical document publishing, and business publishing. The ePaper Solutions segment provides electronic document distribution software that allows users to create, enhance, annotate, and securely send Adobe PDF files that can be shared, viewed, navigated, and printed exactly as intended on a broad range of hardware and software platforms. In addition, our recently acquired Accelio business focusing on electronic forms is included in our ePaper segment. The OEM PostScript and Other segment includes printing technology to create and print simple or visually rich docu ments with precision. Revenue from our Graphics segment is derived primarily from the licensing of the following application products: Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Premiere, Photoshop Elements, After Effects, Adobe Graphics Server (formerly called Adobe AlterCast), Digital Video Collection, Adobe PhotoDeluxe, Atmosphere, and LiveMotion. Cross media Publishing includes the following application products: Web Collection, GoLive, Design Collection, Adobe Publishing Collection, PageMaker, FrameMaker, Adobe Type products, InDesign, Adobe Creative Suites, Adobe Content Server, eBooks, and PressReady. The ePaper Solutions segment includes Adobe Acrobat software and other Acrobat related technologies, Document Server, Form Server, Output Server, and Workflow Server. The OEM Postscript and Other segment includes printing technology to create and print simple or visually rich documents with precision. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2003, we realigned our business segments to reflect the recent change in the way we manage our business. The former Graphics segment has been renamed the Digital Imaging and Video segment. The former Cross media Publishing segment has been renamed the Creative Professional segment and includes two products that were formerly included in our Graphics segment, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Graphics Server (formerly called Adobe AlterCast). There were no changes to our ePaper and OEM Postscript and Other segments. The management discussion and analysis that follows is based on our segment reporting that was in effect throughout fiscal 2002. For more information on both our old and new segment reporting, please refer to Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Products Fiscal 2002 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2001 Revenue During fiscal 2002, our products revenue decreased 6%, or $76.6 million, compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to continued economic weakness in Asia, Europe, and the U.S., as well as declines in revenue from our Graphics, Cross media Publishing, and OEM PostScript and Other segments, for reasons explained below. Revenue from our Graphics segment decreased 7%, or $40.4 million, from $543.4 million in fiscal 2001 to $503.0 million in fiscal 2002. The annual decrease in revenue in our Graphics segment was primarily due to a 13% year over year decline in our illustration software revenue, due to product lifecycle timing and the continued economic impact on creative professional customers, who are the main end user market for this software. We also experienced a 3% overall decline in our digital imaging software revenue, which includes the Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Photoshop Elements, and Adobe PhotoDeluxe products. We believe the decline in digital imaging software is due to a combination of the economic weakness across the world, the impact of lower marketing spending by corporations resulting in a reduced number of creative professional customers, and the trend of our customers migrating towards the purchasing of Adobe Collection products as opposed to individual products. In addition, we experienced a 15% year over y ear revenue decline in our digital video software licensing, which is made up of our Adobe Premiere, Adobe After Effects, and our Adobe Digital Video Collection products, due to product lifecycle timing and the economic impact on the digital video software market. Revenue from our Cross media Publishing segment decreased 10%, or $29.4 million, from $289.6 million in fiscal 2001 to $260.2 million in fiscal 2002. The annual decrease in revenue from our Cross media Publishing segment during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was due to multiple factors. In the Web publishing segment, we experienced a 35% decline in revenue from our Web focused products: Adobe GoLive and the Adobe Web Collection. We attribute this decline to weakness in the Web publishing segment and less sales and marketing emphasis. In addition, we experienced a 23% year over year decline in our business publishing revenue, which is derived from our PageMaker and Adobe Publishing Collection products. We attribute this decline to the weaker global economy in 2002 when compared to 2001, the adoption of our Adobe Design Collection product (especially by creative professionals) instead of the Adobe Publishing Collection product, and less sales and marketing emphasis. Finally, we experienced a 29% year o ver year decline in type and technical publishing products, which includes our Adobe FrameMaker product, due to overall economic weakness in the geographic markets in which these products are used. The decrease in revenue from these Cross media products in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was partially offset by a 42% increase in revenue in our professional layout publishing products, which includes revenue from our InDesign, Adobe Design Collection, and Adobe Creative Suites products. We attribute this revenue increase to increased marketing activities and growing customer demand. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment decreased 15%, or $15.8 million, from $104.8 million in fiscal 2001 to $89.0 million in fiscal 2002, due to the following factors: continued weakness in the print business, lower average selling prices generating less royalties from certain OEM customers, and smaller OEM customers transferring to clone PostScript technologies. Revenue from this segment has declined over the last few years and we expect this trend to continue, but if it significantly exceeds our expectations, it may harm our future results. The decrease in revenue from the above mentioned segments in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was partially offset by an increase of $9.0 million, or 3%, in our ePaper Solutions segment. This segment increased from $291.9 million in fiscal 2001 to $300.9 million in fiscal 2002, primarily due to a 5% increase in Acrobat revenue in the U.S. and an increase in revenue of $21.5 million from our newly acquired Accelio business. Fiscal 2001 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2000 Revenue During fiscal 2001, our overall product revenue decreased 3%, or $36.7 million, compared to fiscal 2000, primarily due to adverse economic conditions, especially in the U.S., and a decline in revenue from our Graphics, Cross media Publishing, and OEM PostScript and Other segments for the reasons explained below. Revenue from our Graphics segment decreased 10%, or $58.7 million, from $602.1 million in fiscal 2000 to $543.4 million in fiscal 2001. We attribute this decrease in Graphics segment revenue primarily to severe economic pressure on the creative professional and consumer markets, as well as product lifecycle timing and the decline in spending on Web focused software tools. As a result of these factors, we experienced an 11% decrease in our digital imaging software revenue and a 17% decrease in our illustration software revenue when comparing fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2000. The declines in our fiscal 2001 Graphics business were partially offset by a 14% year over year revenue increase in our digital video software products. Growth in our digital video software revenue was driven by new updates of our products in fiscal 2001. Revenue from our Cross media Publishing segment decreased 11%, or $35.6 million, from $325.2 million in fiscal 2000 to $289.6 million in fiscal 2001. The largest factors contributing to the Cross media Publishing segment revenue decline were a 25% year over year decline in our Web publishing software revenue due to weakness in the Web layout and Web animation products market, a 23% year over year decline in type and technical publishing products due to product lifecycle timing and overall economic weakness in the geographic markets in which these products are used, and a 19% decline in our business publishing software revenue due to the adoption of our Adobe Design Collection product (especially by creative professionals) instead of our Adobe Publishing Collection product. The declines in our fiscal 2001 Cross media Publishing segment were partially offset by a 55% year over year revenue increase from our professional page layout publishing products due to increased marketing and promotional activities for these products throughout the year. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment decreased 20%, or $26.7 million, from $131.5 million in fiscal 2000 to $104.8 million in fiscal 2001, due to the following factors: continued weakness in the print business, renegotiated pricing with certain OEM customers, and the outsourcing of certain OEM accounts to a third party solution provider. The decrease in revenue from the above mentioned segments in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was partially offset by an increase of 41%, or $84.3 million, in our ePaper Solutions segment, as it increased from $207.6 million in fiscal 2000 to $291.9 million in fiscal 2001, due to the release of our Acrobat 5.0 product in the second quarter of fiscal 2001, as well as the continuing movement from paper based processes to electronic workflows by enterprises and government agencies which contributed to broader adoption of our ePaper products. Services and Support Services and support is composed of professional services (such as consulting services and training) and support (such as maintenance and technical support) primarily related to the products we acquired from Accelio. Professional services revenue is recognized using the percentage of completion method and is measured monthly based primarily on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Our professional services revenue depends in large part on our software license revenue from the products that we acquired from Accelio. A significant portion of our support revenue is composed of our extended Enterprise Maintenance and Support offerings, which entitles customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the maintenance and support period, which is typically one year. Our support revenue depends on both our software license revenue and ren ewals of our maintenance agreements. Our support revenue also includes support for our desktop products whereby Adobe offers a range of support programs, from fee based incident to annual support contracts, and Developer Support to partners and developer organizations. For fiscal 2002, our services and support revenue increased $11.6 million, or 100%, compared to fiscal 2001 solely due to the acquisition of the Accelio business in April 2002. Geographic and Platform Information We categorize our geographic results into three major market regions: the Americas, EMEA, and Asia. Revenue generated in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia as a percentage of total revenue is presented below: 2002 2001 2000 Americas 50 % 48 % 52 % EMEA 27 27 26 Asia 23 25 22 100 % 100 % 100 % The decrease in the percent of revenue from Asia and corresponding increase in the Americas in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to weakness in the Japan economy. The decrease in the Americas in fiscal 2001 compared to 2000 was primarily due to adverse economic conditions, especially in the U.S. Overall, revenue from our application products on the Windows and Macintosh platforms decreased 4% and 10%, respectively, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, revenue from our application products on the Windows platform increased 9%, and revenue from our application products on the Macintosh platform decreased 21% during the same period. In fiscal 2002, the Windows and Macintosh platforms accounted for 71% and 29%, respectively, of application products revenue, excluding platform independent and UNIX products, compared to 70% and 30%, respectively, in fiscal 2001, and 63% and 37%, respectively, in fiscal 2000. We expect the trend towards the Windows platform to continue in the foreseeable future. Cost of revenue 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Cost of revenue Products $96.9 19 % $81.5 (7 )% $87.3 Services and support 7.4 100 Total cost of revenue $104.3 28 % $81.5 (7 )% $87.3 Percentage of total revenue 9.0 % 6.6 % 6.9 % Products Cost of products revenue includes product packaging, third party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs and acquired technologies, hosted server costs, and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Cost of products revenue increased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 primarily due to increased amortization of website development costs related to Adobe Design Team (formerly Adobe Studio) which launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, and the subsequent impairment charge for the remaining Adobe Design Team development costs due to the decision to discontinue the Adobe Design Team service in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Cost of products revenue decreased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, primarily due to an 8% decrease in third party royalties, mainly associated with our PostScript and Type products revenue, and a 5% decrease in material costs due to decreased product licensing of shrink wrapped products. These decreases were offset by a 2% increase in localization costs primarily due to localization for our Photoshop and Acrobat products, a 2% increase in excess and obsolete inventory expenses, and a 1% increase in hosted server costs due to the launch of Adobe Design Team (formerly Adobe Studio). Services and Support Cost of services and support is composed primarily of employee related costs and the related infrastructure costs incurred to provide consulting services, training, and product support for our Accelio business. Cost of services and support increased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 due to the acquisition of the Accelio business in April 2002. Operating Expenses Research and Development 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Research and development $246.1 10 % $224.1 (7 )% $240.2 Percentage of total revenue 21.1 % 18.2 % 19.0 % Research and development expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs, and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased $22.0 million, or 10%, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to higher compensation and related benefits related to headcount growth from the acquisition of Accelio to support product development efforts. Research and development expenses decreased $16.1 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. Of the 7% change, 3% was due to a decrease in compensation and related benefits due to lower incentive compensation expenses and 2% was due to a decrease in contractor and professional fees as less development work was performed through outside sources. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our desktop application and server based software products. Sales and Marketing 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Sales and marketing $380.4 (6 )% $403.7 1 % $401.2 Percentage of total revenue 32.7 % 32.8 % 31.7 % Sales and marketing expenses include salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, customer support, order management, and order fulfillment personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations, and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $23.3 million, or 6%, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to decreased marketing and advertising spending. Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.5 million, or 1%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. The 1% increase was primarily made up of a 6% increase from marketing spending, which was partially offset by a 3% decrease from compensation and related benefits due to lower incentive compensation. General and Administrative 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 General and administrative $108.1 (7 )% $115.6 (1 )% $116.5 Percentage of total revenue 9.3 % 9.4 % 9.2 % General and administrative expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our finance, human resources, legal, information services, and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business. General and administrative expenses decreased $7.5 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. The 7% decrease was primarily made up of 3% from a decrease in contractor and professional fees, 3% from a decrease in facility expenses due to lower rent expenses, and 3% from a decrease in compensation and related benefits due to reduced headcount. These decreases were partially offset by a 2% increase from higher depreciation expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.9 million, or 1%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. The 1% decrease was primarily made up of 5% from a decrease in bad debt expense related to enhanced global credit evaluations, on going risk mitigation efforts (such as letters of credit, guarantees, and credit insurance) in Asia, and improved collections of our royalty accounts. This decrease was partially offset by a 2% increase from higher legal fees due to litigation and a 2% increase from facility expenses due to higher utility costs. Restructuring and Other Charges 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Restructuring and other charges $12.1 1 % $12.1 114 % $5.6 Percentage of total revenue 1.0 % 1.0 % 0.4 % In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we incurred a restructuring charge of $11.1 million, which included severance and related charges and the closure of a facility. The related restructuring program eliminated 239 engineering, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions worldwide in order to realign our resources for our future business plans. These plans include adding resources to support our ePaper enterprise business in fiscal 2003. The restructuring program is expected to be completed in fiscal 2003. Of the $11.1 million in charges, $4.7 million remained accrued at November 29, 2002. In the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we implemented a restructuring program to eliminate 39 redundant sales and marketing positions, held by Adobe employees worldwide, as a result of the acquisition of Accelio. The restructuring included severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force and the cost of vacating a leased facility. Total restructuring charges were $1.6 million and the majority of these payments were paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Of the $1.6 million in charges, $.05 million remains accrued at November 29, 2002. The remaining payments will be paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we paid our remaining obligations under our 2001 restructuring program. We also lowered our estimate of the total costs associated with the restructuring program, resulting in an adjustment of approximately $0.6 million. The adjustment primarily reflected lower than estimated relocation and severance expenses and related charges. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we implemented a restructuring plan to realign our workforce to our future strategic goals and to align our resources with our lower fiscal 2002 revenue targets due to adverse economic conditions resulting in part from the events of September 11, 2001. This restructuring enabled us to increase our investment in digital imaging, digital video, and ePaper based businesses in fiscal 2002. As part of the restructuring program, we implemented a reduction in force of 247 positions, affecting organizations throughout the company. The reductions came predominantly from sales and marketing and in our North American operations, and as of November 30, 2001, the majority of these terminations were completed. The restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 was $12.1 million, all of which related to severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force. As of November 29, 2002, there was no restructuring liability remaining for our fiscal year 2001 rest ructuring program. For more information, see Note 8 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2000, restructuring and other charges consisted of $6.3 million of other charges relating to the disposal of certain equipment and one time litigation related expenses, and a credit of $0.7 million related to the fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998 restructuring programs. The $0.7 million credit was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2000, as we revised our estimates of the total costs associated with the fiscal 1999 and 1998 restructuring programs. The credit primarily reflected lower than estimated severance and related charges attributable to employees whose positions were eliminated as a result of the restructurings but who were able to find alternative employment within Adobe. The remaining credit was due to lower than expected charges related to vacating leased facilities. Acquired In Process Research and Development 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Acquired in process research and development $5.8 100 % $ (100 )% $0.5 Percentage of total revenue 0.5 % On April 12, 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Accelio Corporation. Accelio was a provider of Web enabled solutions that help customers manage business processes driven by electronic forms. We obtained an independent appraisers valuation to determine the amounts allocated to purchased technology and in process research and development. The valuation analysis utilized the Income Approach that takes into consideration discounted future cash flows. Based on this valuation $0.4 million was allocated to in process research and development. The amount allocated to in process research and development of $0.4 million was expensed as of the date of the acquisition due to the state of the development of certain products and the uncertainty of the technology. In December 2001, we acquired Fotiva, Inc. ("Fotiva"). Substantially all of Fotivas assets were intellectual property. Fotiva was a development stage software company that created solutions to help consumers manage, store, enrich, and share digital photographs and other related personal media. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price of $5.4 million cash was allocated to in process research and development and expensed at the time of acquisition due to the in process state of the technology. At the date we acquired Fotiva, it was estimated that 50% of the development effort had been completed and that the remaining 50% of the development effort would take approximately eleven months to complete. The efforts required to complete the development of the technology primarily include finalization of coding, internationalization, and extensive quality assurance testing. We developed a new product, Adobe Photoshop Album, that we released in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 using Fotivas image management technology with our digital imaging and ePaper technologies. In fiscal 2000, we recorded $0.5 million of acquired in process research and development related to our acquisition of Glassbook, Inc. ("Glassbook"). The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16 ("APB 16"). Based on an independent appraisers valuation, $0.5 million of the total $28.0 million purchase price was allocated to in process research and development due to the state of the development and the uncertainty of the technology. The ongoing projects at Glassbook at the time of the purchase included the development of the Glassbook Reader and the Glassbook Content Server products. We released new products that contained the purchased technology in April 2001, with Acrobat eBook Reader 2.1 and Adobe Content Server 2.0. Amortization and Impairment of Goodwill and Purchased Intangibles 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased intangibles $21.0 47 % $14.3 104 % $7.0 Percentage of total revenue 1.8 % 1.2 % 0.6 % Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles increased $6.7 million, or 47%, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge for the remaining book value of the Glassbook acquisition. The impairment charge was determined based on discounted future cash flows. As part of the acquisition of Accelio in April 2002, we allocated $75.0 million to goodwill which, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," will not be amortized. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we revised our estimate of certain costs associated with our acquisition of Accelio, resulting in an increase to goodwill of approximately $2.6 million. The adjustment primarily reflected higher than estimated transaction costs and costs related to closing redundant facilities. The goodwill associated with the acquisitions of Accelio and GoLive will be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles increased $7.3 million, or 104%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, due to a full year of amortization of Glassbook goodwill totaling $7.2 million and purchased intangibles of $0.1 million. Nonoperating Income (Loss) Investment Gain (Loss) 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Investment gain (loss) $(17.2 ) 82 % $(93.4 ) (751 )% $14.3 Percentage of total revenue (1.5 )% (7.6 )% 1.1 % Investment gain (loss) consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable equity securities, and equity method gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. During fiscal 2002, investment losses consisted of other than temporary writedowns related to our marketable equity securities in DigitalThink, Inc., Tumbleweed Communications Corp., Engage, Inc., Virage, Inc., Viewpoint Corporation, AvantGo, Inc., and Salon Media Group, Inc. (formerly Salon.com) of $11.3 million. These losses were partially offset by gains totaling $7.2 million from the sale of our marketable equity securities. We also recorded net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $13.1 million. As of November 29, 2002, our short term investments included marketable equity securities of $14.1 million and our long term investments included investments in Adobe Ventures and other cost method investments of $35.6 million. These securities are inherently risky and we may experience further deterioration in fair value in the future. During fiscal 2001, investment losses consisted of other than temporary writedowns related to our marketable equity securities in Tumbleweed Communications Corp., Salon Media Group, Inc. (formerly Salon.com), Engage, Inc., Liquent, Inc. (formerly ESPS, Inc.), AvantGo, Inc., Viewpoint Corporation, and Virage, Inc. of $53.1 million. These losses were partially offset by gains totaling $19.5 million from the sale of our marketable equity securities. We also recorded net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $59.8 million. As of November 30, 2001, our short term investments included marketable equity securities of $37.8 million and our long term investments included investments in Adobe Ventures and other cost method investments of $31.7 million. During fiscal 2000, we recorded investment gains related to the sale of a portion of our investment in Tumbleweed Communications Corp. and Digimarc Corporation for $10.4 million and $2.2 million, respectively. Additionally, we recorded investment gains totaling $13.0 million related to the mark to market valuation adjustment for AvantGo, Inc. and other net gains totaling approximately $15.0 million related to various other Adobe Ventures investments activities. These gains were partially offset by investment losses related to the writedown of our investments in Engage, Inc.; Classmates Online, Inc. (formerly eCircles, Inc.); Salon Media Group, Inc. (formerly Salon.com); and Impresse Corporation, totaling approximately $26.3 million. We are uncertain of future investment gains or losses as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies and market valuations. Interest and Other Income 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Interest and other income $14.8 (32 )% $21.9 3 % $21.3 Percentage of total revenue 1.3 % 1.8 % 1.7 % Interest and other income consists principally of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, gains and losses on the sale of fixed income investments, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses and realized gains or losses on the disposal of assets. Interest and other income decreased $7.1 million, or 32%, in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 primarily due to a decrease in interest income of $6.0 million due to lower interest rates and lower realized gains of $2.5 million resulting from the sales of fixed income investments. The decreases in interest and other income in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 were partially offset by a reduction in losses of $1.1 million related to the lowered cost of purchased options used in foreign currency hedging. Interest and other income increased $0.6 million, or 3%, in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 primarily due to realized gains of $5.9 million resulting from the sale of fixed income investments. Interest and other income also increased in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 due to higher average cash balances resulting in an increase in interest income of $1.8 million. The increase in interest and other income in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 was partially offset by foreign currency losses of $4.4 million. These foreign currency losses resulted from the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ("SFAS No. 133"), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and subsequent recording of the cost of hedging foreign currency exposures in interest and other income. In addition, in fiscal 2000, interest and other income increased due to a one time gain of $2.5 million from the sale of a corporate facility in Edinburgh, Scotland. Income Tax Provision 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Income tax provision $93.3 (8 )% $101.3 (35 )% $155.9 Percentage of total revenue 8.0 % 8.2 % 12.3 % Effective tax rate 32.8 % 33.0 % 35.1 % Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2002 from fiscal 2001 and from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2001, due to tax benefits associated with the restructuring of our international operations. Part of the tax rate decrease in fiscal year 2002 was offset by a tax rate increase, approximately 0.8%, due to the non tax deductible goodwill impairment expense. Factors That May Affect Our Future Performance We believe that in the future our results of operations could be affected by various factors, including: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, particularly Microsoft delays in shipment of our new products or major new versions of existing products difficulties in transitions to new markets, including the enterprise, government, corporate business and consumer markets inability to attract and retain key personnel lack of market acceptance of new products and upgrades weakness in demand for application software, computers, and printers downward sales price adjustments intellectual property disputes and litigation industry transitions to new business models renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property licensing arrangements changes in accounting rules market risks associated with our equity investments (as discussed later under "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk") We periodically provide operating model targets for revenue, expenses, gross margin, operating profit, other income, tax rate, and share count. We use these targets to assist us in making decisions about our allocation of resources and investments, not as predictions of future results. The targets reflect a number of assumptions, including assumptions about: product pricing and demand manufacturing costs and volumes the mix of application products and licensing revenue, full and upgrade products, distribution channels, and geographic distribution no change occurring in the global market conditions affecting our customers These and many other factors described in this report affect our financial performance and may cause our future results, including results for the current quarter, to vary materially from these targets or from results for prior periods. In particular, the slow down in some geographic areas, primarily in the U.S., Europe, and Japan, has adversely affected all of our product segments and may adversely affect our ability to achieve our targets. We attribute this slow down, which is affecting all of our product segments, to continued economic weakness. These adverse economic conditions in the U.S., Europe, Japan, and potentially other geographic markets may continue in the short term, and they may continue to adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Although there are also adverse conditions in other countries, these other countries represent a much smaller portion of our revenue and thus have less impact on our operational results. Furthermore, if the economic slow down worsens or spreads to other geograph ic areas where we do business, it would likely cause our future results, including results for the current quarter, to vary materially from our targets. In addition, political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our business. The end markets for our software products are intensely and increasingly competitive and are significantly affected by product introductions and market activities of industry competitors. In the ePaper applications market, a number of competitors have developed and brought to market clones of our Acrobat application to create and enhance PDF files. Through lower pricing and aggressive marketing to existing or potential Adobe customers, these competitors could impact Adobe Acrobat average seat pricing, and our overall ePaper revenue. Additionally, any incorporation into an operating system of software for the creation of PDF files, or other software that competes with our ePaper or graphics applications, could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, Microsoft has increased its presence in the low end and mid range consumer digital imaging/graphics markets, as well as indicating that it may include new electronic form, electronic document distribution, eBook and related functionality like that i n Adobe Acrobat and our server based ePaper software, including announcing a new electronic forms tool that is planned to ship in mid 2003. We believe that, due to Microsofts market dominance, any new Microsoft products in these markets will be highly competitive with our products. If competing graphics or ePaper products achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results would suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Any further consolidations among competitors of ours may result in stronger competitors and may therefore harm our results of operations. Also, as we seek to further broaden our customer base in the enterprise, government, corporate business and consumer markets, we may not successfully adapt our application software licensing and distribution channels, which could cause our operating results to suffer. As we currently have limited experience in these markets, we believe we will need to recruit, train, and retain personnel with experience in these markets, and our failure to do so may harm our ability to penetrate these markets. We could also experience decreases in average selling prices and some transitions in our distribution channels that could seriously harm our business. In connection with the Accelio acquisition, we may not be successful in integrating Accelio or developing, marketing or licensing products, particularly products for the enterprise, government, corporate business and consumer markets, based on Accelios technology or expertise. We also may not be successful in integrating its distribution channels with ours, or in dev eloping the necessary relationships with enough significant systems integrators to succeed with these new customer bases. Additionally, we may face unanticipated expenses relating to the integration of Accelio personnel and its products, distribution channels, and administrative functions. All of these factors may affect our realizability of Accelios assets, including goodwill. We plan to recruit key talent for our future growth, especially to support our enterprise business. These plans to continue to invest in certain areas will require us to continue to hire additional employees. Competition for high quality personnel, especially highly skilled engineers, is extremely intense. Our ability to effectively manage this growth will require us to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and information management systems, and to attract, retain, motivate, and manage employees effectively; otherwise our business could be seriously harmed. We rely on our ability to grant stock options in order to recruit and retain highly skilled employees in a competitive environment. The proposed requirement that stockholder approval would be required for the adoption of all stock option plans and for any material modifications to such plans, as well as the potential requirement to recognize an expense for stock options in our financial statements, may result in our inability to provide adequate incentives to effectively recruit and retain talented employees. Any delays or failures in developing and marketing our products, including upgrades of current products that successfully adapt to changing customer needs, may also have a harmful impact on our results of operations. Our ability to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect our ability to develop these products. A portion of our future revenue will come from these new applications. Delays in product or upgrade introductions could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings, or stock price. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that these new products or upgrades will have on our revenue or results of operations. We offer our application based products primarily on Macintosh and Windows platforms, and on some UNIX platforms. We generally offer our server based products, but not desktop products, on the Linux platform as well as the three platforms mentioned above. To the extent that there is a slow down of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on the Linux desktop platform before we choose and are able to offer our products on this platform, our business could be harmed. We distribute our application products primarily through distributors, resellers, retailers, and increasingly, systems integrators and VARs (collectively referred to as "distributors"). A significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two distributors. In addition, our channel program now focuses our efforts on larger distributors, which has resulted in our dependence on a relatively small number of distributors selling through a large amount of our products. Sales through the distribution channel result in unstable pricing and significant product returns. Our distributors sell our competitors products; if our distributors favor our competitors products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, and in that case, our results would suffer. Additionally, one of our goals is to increase our direct distribution of our products to end users through our online store located on our website at www.adobe.com . Any such increase in our direct revenue efforts will place us in increased competition with our channel distributors and with newer types of distribution of our products by online, Internet based resellers. In addition, we continue to expand into third party distribution channels, including VARs and systems integrators, in our effort to further broaden our customer base. As a result, the financial health of these third parties and our continuing relationships with them are becoming more important to our success. Some of these companies may be unable to withstand changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these third parties substantially weakens or if our relationships with them deteriorate. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third party rights, we have been, are currently, and may in the future be subject to complex, protracted litigation or negotiations as part of our policy to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, including rights derived from third party licensors. Intellectual property litigation is typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Adverse decisions in such litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, or causing sever e disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Our computer network and applications could be adversely impacted by malicious code such as worms and viruses, which are released into the public Internet using recently discovered vulnerabilities in popular software programs. Although we have a response team that is notified of high risk malicious events from multiple sources and we take certain preventative measures, these procedures may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our business. In some markets and for some products, we have adopted a strategy aiming to increase our market share where it is low and therefore may receive significantly less revenue from certain licensing arrangements than we otherwise would receive for licensing these products. Increased market penetration may in fact lead to lower revenue growth in these areas. While we believe that this potential market share increase will ultimately benefit us, this strategy could instead harm our business through reduced revenue growth. We currently rely on five turnkey assemblers of our products, with at least two turnkeys located in each major region we serve. If any significant turnkey assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any significant turnkey is interrupted or terminated for any other reason, we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products manufactured by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our business. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment experienced a 15% decline in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily as a result of a decline in the print business. We expect this segment to continue to decline in fiscal 2003 relative to fiscal 2002, which may harm our business if the magnitude of the decline significantly exceeds our expectations. The continuing weakness in the economy is contributing to the decrease in revenue for the monochrome laser printers market, in addition to the decline in average selling prices of monochrome laser printers and the increasing use of inkjet printers. If a current major customer decided to incorporate a clone version instead of Adobe PostScript technology, it could seriously harm our business. Further, OEM partners on occasion seek to renegotiate their royalty arrangements. We evaluate these requests on a case by case basis. If an agreement is not reached, a customer may decide to pursue other options, which could result in lower licensing revenue for us. The Internet market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants that have introduced or developed products addressing authoring and communication over the Internet. As is typical in the case of a new and evolving industry, demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. The industry for software that addresses authoring and communications over the Internet is still developing. Standards defining Web graphics have not yet been fully adopted. In addition, new models for licensing software will be needed to accommodate new information delivery practices. The new models may be less lucrative for us than our existing business models. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet (including security, reliability, ease of use and access, cost, and quality of service) remain unresolved and may affect the growth of Internet use, together with the software standards and electronic media employed in such markets. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and operating income from our customers located in Europe and Japan. We generally experience lower revenue from our European operations in the third quarter because many customers reduce their purchasing activities in the summer months. We are uncertain whether the recent currency appreciation experienced in Europe and Japan will continue in the foreseeable future. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have significant financial impact. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our best judgment of the appropriate trade offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. We have established a hedging program to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily of the Japanese yen and the euro. We regularly review our hedging program and will make adjustments based on our best judgment. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the "AICPA"), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect the reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: software revenue recognition stock option grants and accounting for stock options accounting for business combinations accounting for variable interest entities goodwill and other intangible assets accounting In particular, new FASB guidelines relating to accounting for goodwill could make our acquisition related charges less predictable in any given reporting period. It is possible that in the future, we may incur less frequent, but larger, impairment charges related to goodwill we have already recorded, as well as goodwill arising out of potential future acquisitions. See "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" for more information on this new FASB guideline. Changes to these rules or the questioning of current practices may have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. See the discussion under "Critical Accounting Policies" below for additional information about our critical accounting policies and some risks associated with these policies. We hold equity investments that have recently experienced significant declines in market value. We also have investments, and may continue to make future investments, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products they have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income. We recorded pre tax losses from marketable securities and other investments in privately held companies of $17.2 million and $93.4 million in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. These amounts reflect realized losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable equity securities, and net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments. In fiscal 2002 and 2001, decreases in the market prices of these securities resulted in a decrease in our pre tax income. Future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long term declines in value could reduce our net income in future periods. We are uncertain of future investment gains and losses, as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies. Due to the factors noted above, our future earnings and stock price may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings, or any delay in the release of any product or upgrade, compared to analysts or investors expectations could cause, and has caused in the past, an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not learn of such shortfalls or delays until late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. Finally, we participate in a highly dynamic industry. In addition to factors specific to us, changes in analysts earnings estimates for us or our industry and factors affecting the corporate environment, our industry, or the securities markets in general will often result in significant volatility of our common stock price. Critical Accounting Policies We have identified the following as critical accounting policies to our company: revenue recognition, accounting for our marketable and non marketable fixed income and equity securities, accounting for leases of property and equipment, and accounting for income taxes. Revenue Recognition We recognize application products revenue upon shipment, net of estimated returns, provided that collection is determined to be probable and no significant obligations remain. Application products revenue from distributors is subject to agreements allowing limited rights of return, rebates, and price protection. Accordingly, we reduce revenue recognized for estimated future returns, price protection, and rebates at the time the related revenue is recorded. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon historical rates of returns, inventory levels in the distribution channel, and other related factors. We provide free technical phone support for our shrink wrapped application products to customers who are under warranty for support. We record the estimated cost of free technical phone support upon shipment of software. We also license software in multiple element arrangements in which a customer purchases a combination of software, post contract customer support ("PCS"), and or professional services. PCS, or maintenance, includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, telephone support, updates, and enhancements. Professional services relate to consulting services and training. When vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value exists for all elements in a multiple element arrangement, revenue is allocated to each element based on the relative fair value of each of the elements. VSOE of fair value is established by the price charged when the same element is sold separately. We determine VSOE of fair value of PCS based on renewal rates for the same term PCS. In a multiple element arrangement whereby VSOE of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but VSOE of fair value does not exist for one or more delivered elements, revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the f air value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue, assuming delivery has occurred and collectibility is probable. Revenue allocated to PCS is recognized ratably over the contractual term (typically one to two years). The arrangement fees related to fixed priced consulting contracts are recognized using the percentage of completion method. Percentage of completion is measured monthly based primarily on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Anticipated losses on fixed priced contracts are recognized in the period when they become known. We record OEM licensing revenue, primarily royalties, when OEM partners ship products incorporating Adobe software, provided collection of such revenue is deemed probable. Deferred revenue includes customer advances under OEM licensing agreements and maintenance revenue. In cases where we will provide a specified free upgrade to an existing product, we defer revenue until the future obligation is fulfilled. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. We maintain allowances for estimated credit losses. Accounting for our Marketable and Non marketable Fixed Income and Equity Securities We classify all of our cash equivalents and short term investments that are free of trading restrictions, or become free of trading restrictions within one year, as "available for sale." We carry these investments at fair value, based on quoted market prices, and unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized when realized in our consolidated statements of income. The market prices in our short term equity investments have been volatile in the past. It is our policy to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related writedown as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of income. The ultimate value realized on these equity investments is subject to market volatility until they are sold. For further information on our cash equivalents and short term investments, please refer to Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our long term investments include direct investments and indirect investments in privately held companies. We own limited partnership interests in four venture capital limited partnerships, Adobe Ventures L.P., Adobe Ventures II, L.P., Adobe Ventures III, L.P., and Adobe Ventures IV, L.P. (collectively "Adobe Ventures"), that invest in early stage companies with innovative technologies. In addition to the potential for financial returns, our venture activities increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies, as well as expand our ecosystem of Adobe products and services. The partnerships are managed by Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures. The investments in Adobe Ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and accordingly, the investments are adjusted to reflect our share of Adobe Ventures investment income (loss) and dividend distributions. Under the terms of the partnership agreements, the general partner has the sole and exclusive right to manage and control the partnerships. Adobe as the limited partner has certain rights, including replacing the general partner and approving acquisitions that exceed certain established parameters. However, these rights are considered to be protective rights and do not suggest an ability to control the partnerships. Adobe Ventures carry their investments in equity securities at estimated fair market value and unrealized gains and losses are included in investment gain (loss). The stock of a number of technology investments held by the limited partnerships at November 29, 2002 is not publicly traded, and, therefore, there is no established market for their securities. In order to determine the fair market value of these investments, we use the most recent round of financing involving new non strategic investors or estimates made by Granite Ventures based on their assessment of the current market value. It is our policy to review the fair value of these investments held by Adobe Ventures on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying value of the investments in these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes, and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. If we believe that the carrying value of a company is carried at an amount in excess of fair value, it is our policy to record a reserve in addition to our equity method of accounting. Estimating the fair value of non marketable equity investments in early stage technology companies is inherently subjective and may contribute to significant volatility in our reported results of operations. We recognize realized gains and losses upon sale or maturity of these investments using the specific identification method. For further information on our long term investments, please refer to Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Leases of Property and Equipment We entered into two operating lease agreements in 1999 and 2001 (the latter for a building currently under construction) related to our headquarter office buildings in San Jose, California. The agreements qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 ("SFAS No. 13"), "Accounting for Leases," and, as such, the buildings are not included on our balance sheet. According to SFAS No. 13, a lease is classified as operating if it does not meet any of the following criteria at its inception: 1) the lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee at the end of the lease term, 2) the lease contains a bargain purchase option, 3) the lease term is equal to 75% or more of the economic life of the leased property, 4) the present value of the minimum lease payments equals or exceeds 90% of the fair value of the leased property. These agreements are subject to standard covenants, including liquidity, leverage, and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessors quarterly. We believe we will be able to meet our obligations under the agreements, but if we default on our commitments and are unable to remedy the default quickly enough, the lessors may terminate all remaining commitments (if any remain), and they may demand we purchase the building for an amount equal to the current lease balance, or require that we remarket or relinquish the building. If we are required to purchase the buildings and do not elect to refinance, this will substantially decrease our cash available for working capital and require us to add the value of the buildings to our balance sheet. If we remarket or relinquish the buildings, this could require us to find alternate facilities on terms that may not be as favorable as the current arrangement. As of November 29, 2002, we were in compliance with all covenants. For further information on these leases, please refer to Note 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect of income taxes. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Companys financial statements or tax returns. Fluctuations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact the Companys financial position or its results of operations. Employee and Director Stock Options Option Program Description Our stock option program is a broad based, long term retention program that is intended to attract, retain, and provide performance incentives for talented employees, officers and directors, and to align stockholder and employee interests. Currently, we grant options from three stock plans (the "Plans"): 1) the 1994 Stock Option Plan, under which officers and key employees are granted options to purchase shares of our stock, 2) the 1999 Equity Incentive Plan, our broad based plan under which options may be granted to all employees and outside consultants, and 3) the 1996 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended, under which options are granted automatically under a pre determined formula to non employee directors. In addition, our stock option program includes the Adobe 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the Aldus 1984 Restated Stock Option Plan from which we currently do not grant options. The plans listed above are collectively referred to in the following discussion as "the Plans." We c onsider our option programs critical to our operation and productivity; essentially all of our employees participate. Option vesting periods are generally three years for all of the Plans. All stock option grants to current executive officers are made after a review by, and with the approval of, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. All members of the Executive Compensation Committee are independent directors, as defined in the rules applicable to issuers traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market. See the "Report of the Executive Compensation Committee" appearing in the Companys 2003 Proxy Statement for further information concerning the policies and procedures of the Company and the Executive Compensation Committee regarding the use of stock options. Distribution and Dilutive Effect of Options The table below provides information about stock options granted for 2002, 2001, and, 2000 to our Chief Executive Officer and our four other most highly compensated executive officers as of November 29, 2002, who will also be identified in our 2003 Proxy Statement. This group is referred to as the Named Executive Officers. Please refer to the section headed "Executive Options" below for the Named Executive Officers. Options granted to employees, directors and Named Executive Officers for the fiscal years 2000 through 2002 are summarized as follows: Employees, Directors and Named Executive Officers Option Grants in 2002, 2001, and 2000 (1) 2002 2001 2000 Net grants during the period as % of outstanding shares 3% 6% 6% Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of total options granted 21% 11% 15% Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of Outstanding shares 1% 1% 1% Cumulative options held by Named Executive Officers as % of total options outstanding 15% 12% 10% (1) "Net grants" equals the sum of the number of shares subject to options granted during the specified period reduced by the number of shares subject to options which were canceled or otherwise terminated during such period. Net grants as a percentage of outstanding shares is based on 232 million shares, 236 million shares, and 241 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of November 29, 2002, November 30, 2001 and December 1, 2000, respectively. All options and outstanding shares referred to in the above table have been adjusted to reflect the two for one stock split in the form of a stock dividend effected October 24, 2000. During fiscal 2002, we granted options to purchase approximately 12.0 million shares of our stock to our employees and directors, which was a net grant of approximately 7.0 million options after deducting approximately 5.0 million shares for options canceled. For additional information about our employee stock option plan activity for the years 2000 through 2002, and pro forma earnings presentation as if we had accounted for our grant of employee stock options using the fair value method of accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS No. 123"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," please refer to Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For fiscal 2002, options granted to the Named Executive Officers amounted to 21% of the grants made to all employees and directors. Options granted to the Named Executive Officers as a percentage of the total options granted to all employees and directors vary from year to year. In 2002, the Named Executive Officers received a higher percentage of total grants than in other years because, although total grants to the Named Executive Officers remained relatively the same, overall there were fewer options granted to all employees. For additional information about the compensation of our executive officers and stock option grants to our Named Executive Officers, please refer to our 2003 Proxy Statement. General Option Information The following table sets forth the summary of activity under the Plans for our fiscal year ended November 29, 2002 and November 30, 2001 (in actual amounts): Summary of Option Activity Years Ended November 29, 2002 November 30, 2001 Options Available for Grant Number of Options Outstanding Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Available for Grant Number of Options Outstanding Weighted Average Exercise Price Beginning of period 12,818,238 54,284,317 $ 36.66 26,911,978 45,017,400 $38.26 Granted (11,973,680 ) 11,973,680 28.77 (19,177,315 ) 19,177,315 28.38 Exercised (3,688,534 ) 15.99 (4,826,823 ) 12.55 Canceled 4,722,413 (4,722,413 ) 45.20 5,083,575 (5,083,575 ) 44.89 End of period 5,566,971 57,847,050 $35.64 12,818,238 54,284,317 $36.66 The following table sets forth a comparison as of November 29, 2002, of the number of shares subject to our options whose exercise prices were at or below the closing price of our common stock on November 29, 2002 ("In the Money" options) to the number of shares subject to options whose exercise prices were greater than the closing price of our common stock on such date ("Out of the Money" options) (in actual shares): In the Money and Out of the Money Option Information as of November 29, 2002 (1) Exercisable Unexercisable Total Percentage of Total Options Outstanding In the Money 10,410,743 20,941,290 31,352,033 54% Out of the Money 15,991,496 10,503,521 26,495,017 46% Total Options Outstanding 26,402,239 31,444,811 57,847,050 100% (1) The closing price of our common stock on November 29, 2002, was $29.53, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. Executive Options The following table sets forth information regarding stock options granted in the fiscal year ended November 29, 2002, to our Named Executive Officers, each under the 1994 Stock Option Plan, as amended. All options were granted with an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Potential realizable values are net of exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent hypothetical gains that could be achieved for the options if exercised at the end of the option term of seven (7) years. The assumed 5% and 10% rates of stock price appreciation are provided for purposes of illustration only and do not represent our estimate or projection of the future price of our common stock. Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year Individual Grants Potential Realizable Value at Assumed Annual Rates of Stock Price Appreciation for Option Term (in actual dollars) Number of Securities Underlying Options Granted (actual shares) % of Total Options Granted to Employees in Fiscal Year(1) Exercise Price (per share) Expiration Date Granted 5% 10% Bruce R. Chizen 1,090 0.01 % $26.47 11/12/09 $11,746 $27,373 848,910 7.20 26.47 11/12/09 9,147,810 21,318,288 Shantanu Narayen 4,100 0.03 26.47 11/12/09 44,181 102,961 495,900 4.20 26.47 11/12/09 5,343,793 12,453,309 Murray J. Demo 3,850 0.03 26.47 11/12/09 41,487 96,683 496,150 4.21 26.47 11/12/09 5,346,487 12,459,588 Jim Stephens 4,150 0.04 26.47 11/12/09 44,720 104,217 295,850 2.51 26.47 11/12/09 3,188,064 7,429,545 Bryan Lamkin 4,475 0.04 26.47 11/12/09 48,222 112,379 295,525 2.50 26.47 11/12/09 3,184,562 7,421,384 (1) Based on approximately 12.0 million shares subject to options granted to employees under our option plans during fiscal 2002. Stock Option Exercises and Option Holdings The following table shows stock options exercised by the Named Executive Officers in fiscal 2002, including the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. In addition, the number of shares covered by both exercisable and non exercisable stock options, as of November 29, 2002, is shown. Also reported are the values for "In the Money" options. The dollar amounts shown in the "In the Money" column represent the positive spread between the exercise price of any such existing stock options and closing price as of November 29, 2002 of our common stock. Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year End Option Values (in actual shares and dollars) Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options at November 29, 2002 Value of Unexercised In the Money Options at November 29, 2002 (2) Number of Shares Acquired on Exercise Value Realized (1) Name Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Bruce R. Chizen 150,000 $3,905,278 1,396,990 1,762,501 $539,591 $3,944,678 Shantanu Narayen 27,000 723,928 826,532 1,004,168 1,386,678 2,282,449 Murray J. Demo 580,157 920,835 457,822 2,056,715 Jim Stephens 52,500 1,561,705 480,834 608,334 208,838 1,390,975 Bryan Lamkin 559,604 614,584 346,934 1,342,600 (1) The "value realized" represents the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. (2) Option values are based on the closing price of our common stock on November 29, 2002 of $29.53, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information about our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options under all of our existing equity compensation plans as of November 29, 2002, including Adobes 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended, 1994 Stock Option Plan, 1994 Performance and Restricted Stock Plan, 1996 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended, 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the 1999 Equity Incentive Plan. Equity Compensation Plan Information (in actual shares) Plan Category (1) Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options (a) Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options (b) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 19,768,520 $ 28.47 22,952,840 (2) Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders*(3) 38,050,350 $ 39.39 741,983 Total 57,818,870 $ 35.66 23,694,823 (1) The information presented in this table excludes options assumed by the Company in connection with acquisitions of other companies. As of November 29, 2002, 28,180 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of these assumed options, at a weighted average exercise price of $5.22 per share. (2) Includes 15,369,793 million shares that are reserved for issuance under the 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. (3) Consists of options that are outstanding and shares available for future issuance under our 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (the "1999 Plan"). Neither the Nasdaq current listing standards nor federal law has required stockholder approval of the 1999 Plan, and accordingly it has not been approved by our stockholders. The material features of the 1999 Plan are described in Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We Disclose Pro Forma Financial Information We prepare and release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We also disclose and discuss certain pro forma financial information in the related earnings release and investor conference call. Our pro forma financial information does not include restructuring and other charges, acquired in process research and development, amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased intangibles, gain or loss on the sale of specific assets (e.g. building), and gains and losses on investments in equity securities. We believe the disclosure of the pro forma financial information helps investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our ongoing operations from quarter to quarter and from year to year because it removes certain items from the financial information to more clearly reveal our ongoing operating results. However, we urge investors to carefull y review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and our Annual Reports on Form 10 K that are filed with the SEC, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with the pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls, as well as in some of our other reports. The following table shows the Companys pro forma results reconciled to the GAAP Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal years ended November 29, 2002, and November 30, 2001, and December 1, 2000. Our pro forma information, including the information presented below, is a non GAAP measure and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Our pro forma results for fiscal year 2002, 2001, and 2000 exclude restructuring and other charges, acquired in process research and development, amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased intangibles, investment gains and losses, and gain on the sale of a building. Years Ended November 29, 2002 November 30, 2001 December 1, 2000 (in thousands) GAAP income before income taxes $284,689 $306,931 $443,739 Restructuring and other charges 12,148 12,063 5,629 Acquired in process research and development 5,769 470 Amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased intangibles 20,973 14,281 7,013 Investment (gain) loss 17,185 93,414 (14,345 ) Gain on the sale of a building (2,718 ) Pro forma income before income taxes 340,764 426,689 439,788 Income tax provision 109,044 140,807 154,542 Pro forma net income $231,720 $285,882 $285,246 Pro Forma Fair Value Disclosures on Employee Stock Plans We account for our fixed stock option plans and our employee stock purchase plan using the intrinsic value method. Please see our Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the pro forma amounts of net income and net income per share that would have resulted if we accounted for our employee stock plans under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS No. 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." This Statement requires that goodwill and other intangibles with an indefinite useful life not be amortized, but be tested for impairment at least annually. SFAS No. 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001; however, for new business combinations that occur after June 30, 2001, SFAS No. 142 is effective. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill resulting from our recent acquisition of Accelio in April 2002 is not amortized. We will fully adopt SFAS No. 142 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 142 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Amortization and impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $21.0 million, $14.3 million, and $7.0 million, respectively. In June 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143 ("SFAS No. 143"), "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development, or normal use of the asset. As used in this Statement, a legal obligation results from existing law, statute, ordinance, written or oral contract, or by legal construction of a contract under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. SFAS No. 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. We will adopt SFAS No. 143 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS No. 144"), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 ("APB No. 30"), "Reporting the Results of Operations for a Disposal of a Segment of a Business." SFAS No. 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We will adopt SFAS No. 144 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145 ("SFAS No. 145"), "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Among other provisions, SFAS No. 145 rescinds SFAS No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt." Accordingly, gains or losses from extinguishment of debt shall not be reported as extraordinary items unless the extinguishment qualifies as an extraordinary item under the criteria of APB No. 30. Gains or losses from extinguishment of debt that do not meet the criteria of APB No. 30 should be reclassified to income from continuing operations in all prior periods presented. SFAS No. 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. We will adopt SFAS No. 145 beginning in our fiscal year 2003. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 145 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In July 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 ("SFAS No. 146"), "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities. This statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Previous guidance, provided under EITF No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including certain costs incurred in a restructuring)," required an exit cost liability be recognized at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan. The provisions of this statement are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated by a company after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In October 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 147 ("SFAS No. 147"), "Acquisitions of Certain Financial Institutions an amendment of FASB Statements No. 72 and 144 and FASB Interpretation No. 9." The provisions of this statement relate to the application of the purchase method of accounting for all acquisitions of financial institutions, except transactions between two or more mutual enterprises. The provisions of this statement also relate to certain long term customer relationship intangible assets recognized in an acquisition of a financial institution, including those acquired in transactions between mutual enterprises. The provisions of this statement are effective on or after October 1, 2002. There will be no material impact upon the adoption of SFAS No. 147 on our financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 ("SFAS No. 148"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment to FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require more prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements about the effects of stock based compensation. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 148 to have a material impact on our financial position or resu lts of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 ("FIN No. 45"), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." FIN No. 45 expands on the accounting guidance of Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and incorporates without change the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 34, which is being superseded. FIN No. 45 will affect leasing transactions involving residual guarantees, vendor and manufacturer guarantees, and tax and environmental indemnities. All such guarantees will need to be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements starting with the period ending after December 15, 2002. For guarantees issued after December 31, 2002, the fair value of the obligation must be reported on the balance sheet. Existing guarantees will be grandfathered and will not be recognized on the balance sheet. We are currently evaluating the impact of FIN No. 45 on our financial position and results of operations. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN No. 46"), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." FIN No. 46 expands upon and strengthens existing accounting guidance that addresses when a company should include in its financial statements the assets, liabilities and activities of another entity. A variable interest entity is a corporation, partnership, trust, or any other legal structure used for business purposes that either (a) does not have equity investors with voting rights or (b) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. FIN No. 46 requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entitys activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entitys residual returns or both. The consolidation requirements of FIN No. 46 apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements apply to older entities in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. Disclosure requirements apply to any financial statements issued after January 31, 2003. The Company has considered the provisions of FIN No. 46 and believes it will not be necessary to include in the Companys financial statements any assets, liabilities, or activities of the entities holding the Companys corporate headquarters leases. The Company has provided certain disclosures in other areas of this filing (see Note 6 and Note 14 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and will continue to evaluate the impact of FIN No. 46 on our financial statements and related disclosures. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $617.7 6 % $581.6 (14 )% $679.9 Working capital $436.9 (4 )% $453.7 (19 )% $563.3 Stockholders equity $674.3 9 % $617.0 (18 )% $752.5 Our cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments consist principally of money market funds, U.S. Treasuries, corporate notes, municipal bonds, and marketable equity securities. All of our short term investments are classified as available for sale under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The securities are carried at fair market value with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized when realized in our consolidated statements of income. Cash provided by operating activities was $329.3 million, $418.7 million, and $444.6 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The $329.3 million of cash provided by operating activities for the year ended November 29, 2002, was primarily due to net income of $191.4 million, net non cash related expenses of $118.9 million, and a net increase in operating assets and liabilities of $19.0 million. The $418.7 million of cash provided by operating activities for the year ended November 30, 2001, was primarily due to net income of $205.6 million, net non cash related expenses of $197.1 million, and a net increase in operating assets and liabilities of $16.0 million. The $444.6 million of cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 1, 2000, was primarily due to net income of $287.8 million net non cash related expenses of $173.6 million, partially offset by a net decrease in operating assets and liabilities of $16.8 million. Our cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 and in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 as a result of decreases in revenue and operating income that occurred primarily as a result of weak economic conditions. Cash used for investing activities was $142.3 million, $26.4 million, and $228.1 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The $142.3 million of cash used for investing activities for the year ended November 29, 2002, was primarily due to net purchases of short term investments of $91.8 million, purchases of long term investments and other assets of $38.0 million, and acquisitions of property and equipment of $31.6 million. The cash used for investing activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale of equity securities of $11.7 million and proceeds of $7.3 million related to our Accelio acquisition. The $26.4 million of cash used for investing activities for the year ended November 30, 2001, was primarily due to acquisitions of property and equipment of $43.2 million and purchases of long term investments and other assets of $35.3 million. The cash used for investing activities was partially offset by net cash provided by short term investments of $20.6 million and proceeds from the sale of equity securities of $31.5 million. The $228.1 million of cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 1, 2000, was primarily due to net purchases of short term investments of $137.9 million, purchases of long term investments and other assets of $59.1 million, and acquisitions of property and equipment of $29.8 million. The cash used for investing activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sales of equity securities and a building of $17.8 million and $5.4 million, respectively. We expect to continue to invest in short term investments and purchase additional property and equipment to support our growth. The increase in cash used for investing activities in fiscal 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to increased purchases of short term investments because of lower treasury stock purchases. The decrease in cash used for investment activities in fiscal 2001 compared to 2000 was primarily due to a reduction in purchases of short term and long term investments in order to purchase treasury stock. Cash used for financing activities was $223.3 million, $409.6 million, and $148.3 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The $223.3 of cash used for financing activities for the year ended November 29, 2002, was primarily due to the purchase of $293.2 million of treasury stock and payment of dividends of $11.9 million. Cash used for financing activities in 2002 was offset by proceeds of $81.9 million from the issuance of treasury stock related to the exercise of stock options under our stock option plans and the sale of stock under the Employee Stock Purchase. The $409.6 million of cash used for financing activities for the year ended November 30, 2001, was primarily due to the purchase of $485.1 million of treasury stock and payment of dividends of $12.0 million. Cash used for financing activities in 2001 was offset by proceeds of $87.5 million from the issuance of treasury stock related to the exercise of stock options under our stock option plans and the sale of stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The $148.4 million of cash used for financing activities for the year ended December 1, 2000, was primarily due to the purchase of $255.5 million of treasury stock and payment of dividends of $12.0 million. Cash used for financing activities in 2000 was offset by proceeds of $119.1 million from the issuance of treasury stock related to the exercise of stock options under our stock option plans and the sale of stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The decrease in cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to less cash used for the purchase of treasury stock due to a lower average per share cost. The increase in cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2001 compared to 2000 was due to an increase in the purchase of treasury stock. Trade receivables decreased $9.2 million in 2002 from 2001 and our days sales outstanding ("DSO") in receivables decreased 6 days in 2002 from 2001. The decrease in trade receivables and DSO was primarily due to our improved collections in 2002. Other receivables increased $12.1 million in 2002 from 2001 primarily due to an increase in indirect tax refund receivables from increased product purchases from our third party manufacturers outside of the U.S. Net property and equipment decreased $6.5 million in 2002 from 2001 primarily due to depreciation and asset retirements. The decrease in net property and equipment was partially offset by an increase related to our India building that we placed into service during fiscal 2002. Other assets increased $4.5 million in 2002 from 2001 due to additional investments in Adobe Ventures. Trade and other payables increased $6.9 million in 2002 from 2001 due to an increase in indirect taxes payable resulting from an increase in foreign sales. Our income tax payable increased approximately $41.1 million in 2002 from 2001 due to an increase in taxable income. Taxable income increased in 2002 over 2001 even though book income did not increase because of certain expenses that are not currently deductible for tax purposes. Also, the company accounts for tax contingencies in the United States and foreign tax jurisdictions in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Please see Note 9 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the changes in the income taxes payable account. Deferred revenue increased $9.5 million in 2002 from 2001 primarily due to increased maintenance contracts resulting from our acquisition of Accelio. Our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances may decline during fiscal 2003 due to further weakening of the economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. However, we believe that our existing balances together with our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. Cash from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business; customer acceptance of new products and upgrades; delays in shipment of our new products or major new versions of existing products; weakness in demand for application software, computers and printers; downward sales price adjustments; the impact of competition; and other risks detailed in the section "Factors That May Affect Our Future Performance." We expect to continue our investing activities, including expenditures for computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to purchase treasury stock and acquire software companies, products, or technologies that are complementary to our business. Adobes Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split in the form of stock dividends of our common stock to stockholders effected October 24, 2000. All share and per share amounts referred to in the consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to reflect this stock split. We have paid cash dividends on our common stock each quarter since the second quarter of 1988. Adobes Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.0125 per common share for each of the four quarters in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000. The declaration of future dividends, whether in cash or in kind, is within the discretion of Adobes Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our results of operations and financial condition, and other factors. Stock Repurchase Program I On going Dilution Coverage To facilitate our stock repurchase program designed to minimize dilution from stock issuance primarily from employee stock plans, we sold put warrants to independent third parties in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000. Each put warrant entitles the holder to sell one share of Adobes common stock to Adobe at a specified price for cash or stock at Adobes option. Approximately 7.5 million, 5.6 million, and 7.0 million put warrants were written in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. At November 29, 2002, approximately 1.9 million put warrants were outstanding that expire through December 2002, with an average exercise price of $26.71 per share, resulting in a total potential cash outlay of approximately $50.5 million in fiscal 2003 if all puts warrants are exercised. In addition, in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, we purchased call options from independent third parties that entitled us to buy 4.9 million, 3.9 million, and 4.2 million shares, respectively, of our common stock on certain dates at specified prices. At November 29, 2002, approximately 1.2 million call options were outstanding that expire on various dates through December 2002 with an average exercise price of $28.08 per share, resulting in a total potential cash outlay of approximately $34.1 million in fiscal 2003 if all calls options are exercised. Our put and call option contracts provide that, at our option, we can settle with physical delivery or net shares equal to the difference between the exercise price and the value of the option as determined by the contract. We repurchased approximately 8.6 million, 5.9 million, and 7.2 million shares in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, at a cost of $255.0 million, $319.9 million, and $255.5 million, respectively. Subsequent to November 29, 2002, we repurchased 1.6 million shares at a cost of $45.1 million through the exercise of outstanding put warrants and call options under this plan. As of December 18, 2002, no put warrants or call options remained outstanding under this plan. The authorization to repurchase shares to cover on going dilution is not subject to expiration. However, this repurchase program is limited to covering net dilution from stock issuances. As of November 29, 2002, 9.6 million shares remained authorized for repurchase, based on net stock issuances less repurchases under this plan. Stock Repurchase Program II Additional Authorization above Dilution Coverage In April 1999, the Board authorized a 5.0 million share repurchase program, which allowed us to purchase shares in the open market and enter into contracts to repurchase shares during future quarters by selling put warrants and buying call options. During fiscal 2001, approximately 4.9 million put warrants were written and 3.5 million call options were purchased at prices ranging from $32.60 to $39.58. As of November 30, 2001, there were no put warrants or options outstanding in this program. During fiscal 2001, we repurchased approximately 4.7 million shares at a cost of $165.2 million. We did not repurchase any shares under this program in fiscal 2000. This program expired in fiscal 2001. In March 2001, subject to certain business and market conditions, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a two year period. During fiscal year 2002, approximately 3.1 million put warrants were written and approximately 2.1 million call options were purchased under this 5.0 million share repurchase program. As of November 29, 2002, under our March 2001 5.0 million share program, approximately 3.0 million put warrants were outstanding that expire through December 2002 with an average exercise price of $25.20 per share. In addition, as of November 29, 2002, approximately 2.0 million call options were outstanding that expire at various dates through December 2002 with an average price of $27.23 per share. Our put and call option contracts provide that, at our option, we can settle with physical delivery or net shares equal to the difference between the exercise price and the value of the option as determined by the contract. In fiscal 2002, we repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares at a cost of $38.2 million under our March 2001 5.0 million share repurchase program. We did not make any repurchases under this plan in fiscal 2001. During December 2002, all outstanding put warrants and call options under the March 2001 5.0 million share repurchase program expired without any cost to Adobe and as of December 20, 2002, there were no put warrants or call options outstanding. As of December 20, 2002, authorization to repurchase 3.0 million shares remained under the plan until it expires in March 2003. On September 25, 2002, subject to certain business and market conditions, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a three year period. We have not made any purchases under this 5.0 million share repurchase program. This plan will expire in September 2005. For more information on our puts and calls, please see Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The tables below represent our authorized stock repurchase plans and summary of stock repurchases as of November 29, 2002. Authorized Stock Repurchase Plans as of November 29, 2002 (in thousands) Board Approval Date Expiration Date Authorized Shares Repurchases To Date Authorization Expired Put Options Outstanding Remaining Authorization December 1997 N/A Ongoing dilution 44,550 N/A 1,890 9,578(1) April 1999 April 2001 5,000 4,687 313 March 2001 March 2003 5,000 2,986 September 2002 September 2005 5,000 5,000 Summary of Stock Repurchases for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000 as of November 29, 2002 (in thousands, except average amounts) Board Approval Date Repurchases Under the Plan 2002 Average 2001 Average 2000 Average December 1997 From employees(2) 83 $35.55 733 $42.01 164 $60.98 Open market 452 35.64 Option exercises 8,517 29.60 4,726 57.78 7,020 34.96 April 1999 Open market Option exercises 4,687 35.24 March 2001 Open market 1,899 18.58 Option exercises 116 28.58 Total shares 10,615 $27.63 10,598 $45.77 7,184 $35.56 Total cost $293,241 $485,115 $255,456 (1) The remaining authorization for the ongoing stock repurchase plan is determined by subtracting repurchases from all stock issuances, net of any canceled shares, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 1998. (2) The repurchases from employees represent shares canceled when surrendered in lieu of cash payments for the option exercise price or withholding taxes due. Commitments Our principal commitments as of November 29, 2002, consist of obligations under operating leases, a real estate financing agreement, venture investing activities, royalty agreements, and various service agreements. We expect to fulfill all of the below commitments from our working capital. Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2091. Rent expense, net of sublease income, for these leases aggregated $26.6 million, $22.0 million, and $25.6 million during fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. As of November 29, 2002, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease income, and future minimum sublease income under noncancelable subleases are as follows: Year Future minimum lease payments (in millions) Future minimum sublease income (in millions) 2003 $19.5 $6.8 2004 $17.4 $6.9 2005 $12.9 $6.8 2006 $10.9 $5.5 2007 $ 7.9 $3.1 2008 and after $34.7 $3.4 In September 2001, we entered into a real estate development agreement for the construction of an additional office building for our corporate headquarters in downtown San Jose, California. Under the agreement, the lessor will finance up to $117.0 million over a two year period, toward the construction and associated costs of the building. As part of the agreement, we entered into a five year lease beginning upon completion of the building. We have the option to purchase the building at any time during the term for an amount equal to the lease balance. The agreement and lease are subject to standard covenants including liquidity, leverage and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessor quarterly. As of November 29, 2002, we were in compliance with all covenants. In the case of a default, the lessor may terminate all remaining commitments (if any remain) and they may demand we purchase the building for an amount equal to the current lease balance, or require that we remarket or relinquish the buil ding. The agreement qualifies for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS No. 13, and, as such, the building and the related obligation are not included on our balance sheet, but the lease payments are reflected in the schedule of future minimum lease payments. At the end of the lease term, we can either purchase the building for the lease balance, which will be approximately $117.0 million, remarket, or relinquish the building. If we choose to remarket or are required to do so upon relinquishing the building, we are bound to arrange the sale of the building to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lease balance, up to the maximum recourse amount of $103.0 million. In August 1999, Adobe entered into a five year lease agreement for our corporate headquarters office buildings in San Jose, California. Under the agreement, we have the option to purchase the buildings at any time during the lease term for the lease balance, which is approximately $142.5 million. The lease is subject to standard covenants including liquidity, leverage and profitability ratios that are reported to the lessor quarterly. As of November 29, 2002, we were in compliance with all covenants. In the case of a default the lessor may demand we purchase the building for an amount equal to the lease balance, or require that we remarket or relinquish the building. The agreement qualifies for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS No. 13, and, as such, the building and the related obligation are not included on our balance sheet, but the lease payments are reflected in the schedule of future minimum lease payments. At the end of the lease term, we can either purchase the building for the lease balance, remarket, or relinquish the building. If we choose to remarket or are required to do so upon relinquishing the building, we are bound to arrange the sale of the building to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lease balance, up to the maximum recourse amount of $132.6 million. Line of Credit In August 1999, Adobe entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility of $100.0 million with a group of banks, for general corporate purposes, subject to certain financial covenants. The facility expired in August 2002 and we elected not to renew the facility. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded under our cost of products revenue on our consolidated statements of income, was approximately $14.4 million, $14.1 million, and $20.8 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Adobe Ventures We have commitments to the Adobe Venture limited partnerships. The following table shows the capital commitments and the capital contributed as of November 29, 2002: Capital Commitment Capital Contributed (in thousands) (in thousands) Adobe Ventures L.P. $ 40,000 $ 40,476 Adobe Ventures II, L.P. $ 40,000 $ 37,541 Adobe Ventures III, L.P. $ 60,000 $ 57,353 Adobe Ventures IV, L.P. $ 100,000 $ 35,418 The capital commitment is the amount that Adobe has agreed to contribute to the Partnership. The capital commitment amount is contributed over the term of each Partnership, which is ten years. We can contribute more than the capital commitment, at our discretion. We can cease funding at any time after the earlier of: a) two years after the effective date of the Partnership or b) the date on which the Company has made capital contributions to the Partnership in an amount in excess of $10.0 million, $10.0 million, $20.0 million, and $33.0 million for Adobe Ventures L.P., Adobe Ventures II, L.P., Adobe Ventures III, L.P., and Adobe Ventures IV, L.P., respectively. In addition to these venture partnerships, we have direct investments in public and privately held companies. In total, as of November 29, 2002, we have invested $213.9 million through our venture partnerships and direct investments. As of November 29, 2002, net returns were $348.7 million, including stock dividends and net gains in market value of investments. Legal Actions On September 3, 2002, Adobe filed suit in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ("the California Action"), against International Typeface Corporation ("ITC") and Agfa Monotype Corporation ("AMT"), companies which have common ownership and management, seeking a declaration that (a) Adobes distribution of font software, which generates ITC typefaces, did not breach its contract pursuant to which Adobe licensed certain rights with respect to ITC typefaces, and (b) Adobe did not violate the Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") with respect to, or induce or contribute to the infringement of copyrights in, ITCs and AMTs TrueType font software. AMT had previously asserted that Adobe had committed such breach of contract and violation of the DMCA. On September 4, 2002, Adobe initiated arbitration proceedings in London, England ("the London Arbitration") against AMT, seeking a declaration that Adobes distribution of font software that generates AMT typefaces did not breach its contract pursuant to which it licensed certain rights with respect to AMT typefaces. AMT has made a breach of contract claim in response to Adobes arbitration demand in the London Arbitration, asserting that Adobe wrongfully granted and or allowed third parties greater rights to distribute and embed AMT fonts than Adobe was licensed to grant and or allow. If AMT prevails on its breach of contract claims, AMT may have the right to terminate Adobes right to distribute any of its products that then still contain font software that generates AMT typefaces. Adobe asserts that it negotiated for and obtained express, written licenses from both AMT and ITC approximately ten years ago permitting Adobe to allow end users to embed AMT and ITC fonts in electronic documents for "print and view" and disputes the other breach of contract claims. Adobe also asserts that Adobe Acrobat 5.0, which AMT and ITC correctly acknowledge has been superceded by version 5.05, neither violates the DMCA nor induces or contributes to the infringement of copyrights in ITCs and AMTs TrueType font software. On September 5, 2002, AMT and ITC filed suit against Adobe in the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Illinois ("the Illinois Action") against Adobe, asserting only that Adobes distribution of the superceded 5.0 version of Adobe Acrobat violated the DMCA, as described above. The Illinois Action seeks statutory damages of $200 $2,500 for each copy of Acrobat 5.0 found to violate the DMCA, a claim that Adobe disputes as a matter of law and fact. The Illinois Action also seeks injunctive relief with respect to Acrobat 5.0, although it specifically alleges, correctly, that Adobe no longer distributes Acrobat 5.0. On November 13, 2002, ITC filed another suit against Adobe in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Illinois ("the Second Illinois Action"), this time asserting that Adobe breached its contract with ITC and that ITC, and not Adobe, owns the copyrights in font software created by Adobe which generates ITC typefaces. AMT and ITC made a motion to dismiss the California action, challenging jurisdiction and venue. That motion was granted by the court on December 16, 2002. As such, the parties respective claims will be resolved in the other actions described above. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain, and AMT and ITC may assert other claims. Adobe cannot assure that it will be able to successfully defend itself against any of the actions described above. AMT and ITC seek an unspecified aggregate dollar amount of damages. A favorable outcome for AMT or ITC in these actions could have a material adverse effect on Adobes business, financial condition and operating results. We strongly believe that all of AMTs and ITCs claims are without merit, and will vigorously defend against them in addition to pursuing our own claims as described above. On September 6, 2002, Plaintiff Fred B. Dufresne filed suit against Adobe, Microsoft Corporation, Macromedia, Inc., and Trellix Corporation in the U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,835,712, entitled "Client Server System Using Embedded Hypertext Tags For Application And Database Development." The plaintiffs Complaint asserts that "Defendants have infringed, and continue to infringe one or more claims of the 712 patent by making, using, selling and or offering for sale, inter alia, products supporting Microsoft Active Server Pages technology." The plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, trebling of damages for "willful infringement," and fees and costs. Adobe strongly disagrees with the plaintiffs claims and intends to vigorously defend against this action. On November 18, 2002, Plaintiffs Shell & Slate Software Corporation and Ben Weiss filed a civil action in the U.S. District Court in Los Angeles against the Company alleging false designation of origin, trade secret misappropriation, breach of contract, and other causes of action. The claim derives from the Plaintiffs belief that the "healing brush" technique of Adobe Photoshop incorporates Plaintiffs trade secrets. Plaintiffs seek preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, compensatory, treble, and punitive damages, and fees and costs. We believe that the action has no merit and intend to defend vigorously against it. From time to time Adobe is involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, in addition to those identified above, consisting of intellectual property, commercial, employment and other matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Adobe makes a provision for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, Adobe believes that it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it, as well as adequate provisions for any probable and estimable losses. It is possible, nevertheless, that cash flows or results of operations could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or m ore of these contingencies. Derivatives and Financial Instruments (Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk) Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments We transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily in certain European countries and Japan. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure from movements in foreign currency exchange rates. This exposure is primarily related to revenue from yen denominated licenses in Japan and euro denominated licenses in certain European countries. Our Japanese operating expenses are in yen, and our European operating expenses are primarily in euro, which mitigates a portion of the exposure related to yen and euro denominated licenses. In addition, we hedge firmly committed transactions using forward contracts. These contracts do subject us to risk of accounting gains and losses; however, the gains and losses on these contracts typically offset or partially offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. We also hedge a percentage of forecasted international revenue with forward and purchased option contracts. Our revenue hedging policy is designed to reduce the negative impact on our forecasted revenue due to foreign currency exchange rate movements. At November 29, 2002, total outstanding contracts included the equivalent of $72.4 million in foreign currency forward exchange contracts and purchased put option contracts with a notional value of $65.2 million. As of November 29, 2002, all contracts were set to expi re at various times through June 2003. The bank counterparties in these contracts expose us to credit related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk we only contract with high quality counterparties with specific minimum rating requirements. In addition, our hedging policy establishes maximum limits for each counterparty. Economic Hedging Hedges of Forecasted Transactions We use option and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain operational ("cash flow") exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have a duration between one to twelve months. Such cash flow exposures result from portions of our forecasted revenues denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We enter into these foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecasted product licensing revenue in the normal course of business, and accordingly, they are not speculative in nature. We record changes in the intrinsic value of these cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until the forecasted transaction occurs. When the forecasted transaction occurs, we reclassify the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income at that time. For the fiscal year ended November 29, 2002, there were no such net gains or losses recognized in other income relating to hedges of forecasted transactions that did not occur. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying forecasted transactions. The changes in fair value of the derivatives are intended to offset changes in the expected cash flows from the forecasted transactions. We record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income on the consolidated statement of income. The time value of purchased derivative instruments is deemed to be ineffective and is recorded in other income over the life of the contract. Balance Sheet Hedging Hedging of Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities We hedge our net recognized foreign currency assets and liabilities with forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative instruments hedge assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recorded as other income (loss). These derivative instruments do not subject us to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to offset gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. At November 29, 2002, the outstanding balance sheet hedging derivatives had maturities of 90 days or less. A sensitivity analysis was performed on all of our foreign exchange derivatives as of November 29, 2002. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value resulting from a 10% and 15% shift in the value of exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. A 10% and 15% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar (and a corresponding decrease in the value of the hedged foreign currency asset) would lead to an increase in the fair value of our financial hedging instruments by $12.1 million and $18.5 million, respectively. Conversely, a 10% and 15% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar would result in a decrease in the fair value of these financial instruments by $9.0 million and $13.1 million, respectively. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. As a general rule, we do not use financial instruments to hedge local currency denominated operating expenses in countries where these expenses create a natural hedge against foreign currency receivables. For example, in many countries revenue from the local currency product licenses substantially offsets the local currency denominated operating expenses. We assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency exposures, primarily related to operating expenses, on an ongoing basis. We regularly review our hedging program and may as part of this review determine at any time to change our hedging program. Equity Investments We are exposed to equity price risk on our portfolio of marketable equity securities. As of November 29, 2002, our total equity holdings in publicly traded companies were valued at $14.1 million compared to $37.8 million at November 30, 2001, a decrease of 63%. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the fair values of these securities could experience further adverse changes in the near term. It is our policy to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related writedown in our consolidated stateme nts of income. The following table represents the potential decrease in fair values of our marketable equity securities that are sensitive to changes in the stock market. Fair value deteriorations of 50%, 35%, and 15% were selected based on the probability of their occurrence. Potential decrease to the value of securities given X% decrease in each stocks price (50%) (35%) (15%) Fair Value as of November 29, 2002 Marketable equity securities $ (7.0) $ (4.9) $ (2.1) $14.1 Fixed Income Investments At November 29, 2002, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those classified as cash equivalents, of $581.7 million compared to $521.8 million at November 30, 2001, an increase of 11%. These securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of our fixed income investments. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of November 29, 2002. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over six month and twelve month time horizons. Potential decrease to the value of fixed income securities given X% increase in interest rates. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (2.9) $ (5.7) $ (8.5) 12 month horizon $ (2.5) $ (4.9) $ (7.4) We limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk by establishing and monitoring clear policies and guidelines for our fixed income portfolios. At the present time, the maximum duration of all portfolios is limited to 2.3 years. The guidelines also establish credit quality standards, limits on exposure to any one security issue, limits on exposure to any one issuer, and limits on exposure to the type of instrument. The limited duration and credit risk criteria established in our guidelines do reduce the exposure to interest rate risk and credit risk; however, dramatic changes to interest rates could result in material changes to the market value of our fixed income securities. Interest Rate Hedging Instruments We are exposed to interest rate risk on the operating lease obligations for some of our facilities that are tied to short term interest rates (LIBOR). As short term interest rates rise, it may negatively impact our net income. Our policy permits us to hedge this interest rate risk using swap agreements. The swap agreements exchange variable interest rate payments for fixed interest rate payments with high quality counterparties. Our swaps are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 because they hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying obligation, so the change in fair value of the swaps is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. If, for some reason, the terms of the hedge no longer matched the underlying obligation, a portion of the swap may become ineffective. Under SFAS No. 133, the change in value of the ineffective portion would be recognized in other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income. Our swaps mature at various dates through the third quarter of fiscal 2004, consistent with the expiration of the underlying obligation. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our interest rate hedges as of November 29, 2002. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of minus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over six month and twelve month time horizons. Potential decrease to the value of fixed income securities given X% increase in interest rates. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (0.7) $ (1.5) $ (2.2) 12 month horizon $ (0.5) $ (1.0) $ (1.4) Privately Held Investments We have direct investments, as well as indirect investments through Adobe Ventures, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, and we could lose a substantial part of our entire initial investment in these companies. It is our policy to review privately held investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying amount and economic viability of these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes, and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. 
