ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion (presented in millions, except share and per share amounts) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements, including statements regarding product plans and investing activities, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this section under "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q to be filed in 2004. When used in this report, the words "expects," "could," "would", "may," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "targets," "estimates," "looks for," "looks to," and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding Adobes focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.  OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe offers a line of software for consumers, creative professionals and enterprises. Our products enable customers to create, manage and deliver visually rich, compelling and reliable content. We distribute our products through a network of distributors and dealers, VARs, systems integrators, ISVs and OEMs; direct to end users; and through our own Web site at www.adobe.com. We also license our technology to major hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of all sizes. We have operations in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia. Our software runs on Microsoft Windows, Apple Macintosh, Linux, UNIX and various non personal computer platforms, depending on the product. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, income taxes and valuation of non marketable equity securities have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. We discuss below the critical accounting estimates associated with these policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. For further information on the critical accounting policies, see Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with current generally accepted accounting principles that have been prescribed for the software industry. Revenue recognition requirements in the software industry are very complex and are subject to change. Our revenue recognition policy is one of our critical accounting policies because revenue is a key component of our results of operations and is based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy we must 32 determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred. In order to determine current and deferred revenue, we make judgments and estimates with regard to future deliverable products and services and the appropriate pricing for those products and services. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future products and services could differ from actual events. We have to estimate provisions for returns which are recorded against our revenues. In determining our estimate for returns, and in accordance with our internal policy regarding channel inventory, we rely upon historical data, the estimated amount of product in our distribution channel, the rate at which our product sells through to the end user, product plans and other factors. Our estimated provisions for returns can vary from what actually occurs. More or less product may be returned from what was estimated. The amount of inventory in the channel could be different than what is estimated. Our estimate of the rate of sell through for product in the channel could be different than what actually occurs. These factors and unanticipated changes in the economic and industry environment could make our return estimates differ from actual. Income Taxes We provide for the effect of income taxes on our financial position and results of operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Under this current accounting pronouncement, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Management must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our net deferred tax asset. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial position and results of operations. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of our net deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. Accounting for our Marketable and Non Marketable Equity Securities It is our policy to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing the cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership of each investment. If we believe that an other than temporary decline exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related write down as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of income. The ultimate value realized on these equity investments is subject to market volatility until they are sold. The stocks of a number of technology investments held both directly and by Adobe Ventures are not publicly traded and, therefore, there is no established market for these securities. In order to determine the fair market value of these investments, we use the most recent round of financing involving new non strategic investors or other estimates of current market value. It is our policy to review the fair value of these investments held by Adobe Ventures on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying value of the investments in these companies. The evaluation process is based on information we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. 33 publicly traded companies and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. Estimating the fair value of non marketable equity investments in early stage technology companies is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgment by management, and may contribute to significant volatility in our reported results.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of 2003 In fiscal 2003, our primary goal was to deliver a series of innovative products to our customers to drive revenue and earnings growth. With new releases of our Acrobat desktop and server products, a new video software suite, new versions of our Creative Professional products and the introduction of Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe delivered more new releases in 2003 than in any previous year. The new releases of our Acrobat desktop products supported our ePaper segment strategy (which we renamed Intelligent Documents beginning in fiscal 2004), which was to concentrate on the adoption of Acrobat across several identified markets. The release of Adobe Creative Suite was also in line with our strategy for the Creative Professional business segment which was to continue our commitment to Creative Professionals by enabling more efficient collaboration and workflow through improved product integration and new functionality. Additionally, our overall revenues were positively impacted by the strength of the euro and the yen during fiscal 2003. We continue to focus on delivering innovative products and solutions for our customers to drive revenue and earnings growth. In fiscal 2004, we expect to see continued growth in our business segments. Our success could be limited by several factors, including the timely release of new products, continued market acceptance of our products, the introduction of new products by existing or new competitors and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations. For a further discussion of these and other risk factors, see the section titled "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." Revenue Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Product $ 1,269.0 10 % $ 1,153.2 (6 )% $ 1,229.7 Percentage of total revenues 98 % 99 % 100 % Services and support 25.7 * % 11.6 * % Percentage of total revenues 2 % 1 % Total revenues $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 (5 )% $ 1,229.7 *Percentage is not meaningful. We have four reportable segments that offer different product lines: Digital Imaging and Video, Creative Professional, ePaper, and OEM PostScript and Other. The Digital Imaging and Video segment provides users with software for creating, editing, enhancing and sharing digital images and photographs, digital video, audio and animations. The Creative Professional segment provides software for professional page layout, professional Web page layout, graphic and illustration creation, technical document publishing and business publishing. The ePaper segment provides electronic document distribution software that allows users to create, enhance, annotate and securely send Adobe PDF files that can be shared, viewed, navigated and printed exactly as intended on a broad range of hardware and software platforms. In addition, this segment provides server based solutions for enterprises and government agencies in the areas of document generation, document process management and collaboration, and document control and security. The OEM PostScript and Other segment includes printing technology used to create and print simple or visually rich documents with precision. 34 Services and support is composed of professional services (such as consulting services and training) and support (such as maintenance and technical support) primarily related to the licensing of our ePaper server solutions products. Professional services revenue is recognized using the percentage of completion method and is measured monthly based on input measures, such as on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. A significant portion of our support revenue comprises our extended Enterprise Maintenance and Support offerings, which entitles customers to receive product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the maintenance and support period, which is typically one year. Our support revenue also includes support for our desktop products whereby we offer a range of support programs, from fee based incident to annual support contracts and developer support to partners and developer organizations. As noted in our 2002 Annual Report on Form 10 K, we realigned our business segments at the beginning of fiscal 2003. The results for fiscal years 2002 and 2001, and the discussion that follows, have been reclassified to reflect the realignment of the operating segments. Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Digital Imaging and Video $ 392.4 (5 )% $ 411.9 (6 )% $ 439.7 Percentage of total revenues 30 % 35 % 36 % Creative Professional 368.5 5 % 351.3 (11 )% 393.3 Percentage of total revenues 29 % 30 % 32 % ePaper* 444.1 42 % 312.6 7 % 291.9 Percentage of total revenues 34 % 27 % 24 % OEM PostScript and Other 89.7 1 % 89.0 (15 )% 104.8 Percentage of total revenues 7 % 8 % 8 % Total revenues $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 (5 )% $ 1,229.7 *The ePaper segment includes professional services and support revenue. Fiscal 2003 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2002 Revenue Revenue from our Digital Imaging and Video segment decreased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to a decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products. Overall, we experienced a 7% decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products, which was mainly attributable to product lifecycle timing. With the introduction of Adobe Creative Suite, which includes Photoshop, we have experienced a shift in revenue from Photoshop to the Adobe Creative Suite which is reported in the Creative Professional segment. The 7% decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products was partially offset by an 8% increase in revenues from our digital video software products. The increase in revenues from our digital video software products was due primarily to new releases of Adobe Video Collection. Revenue from our Creative Professional segment increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to a 57% increase in revenues from our professional page layout products. The growth in revenues from our professional page layout products was due to the release of new products during fiscal 2003, primarily the introduction of Adobe Creative Suite, as well as the planned migration of customers from our business publishing products. This increase was partially offset by decreases in revenues from our other products in the Creative Professional segment. Revenues from our business publishing products decreased 26% due to the planned migration of customers to our professional page 35 layout products. Finally, revenues from our illustration, type and technical publishing, and Web publishing products decreased by 15%, which was primarily attributable to product lifecycle timing. Revenue from our ePaper segment increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to new releases of our Acrobat desktop products during the second quarter of fiscal 2003, as well as increased sales and marketing focus, enhanced corporate and government licensing programs, and product price increases. Overall we experienced a 37% increase in revenues from our Acrobat desktop products, which was driven by continued adoption of Acrobat desktop products in government, financial services, manufacturing, and the architecture, engineering and construction markets among others. Additionally, revenues from our ePaper segment increased due to a 79% increase in revenues from licensing of our ePaper server solution products and the professional services and support revenue associated with these products. The increase in revenue generated from the licensing of our ePaper server solution products and associated professional services and support was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Accelio during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. While we expect revenue from our server products to continue to grow in fiscal 2004, we expect Acrobat desktop product growth to be lower in fiscal 2004 due to our strong results in fiscal 2003. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment remained relatively stable during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. This was due to an increase in royalty revenues from our larger OEM customers during the first half of fiscal 2003. This increase was offset by a decline in revenues due to continued weakness in the print business throughout the year and smaller OEM customers moving to clone PostScript technologies. Revenue from this segment has declined over the last few years and we expect this trend to continue, but if the decline significantly exceeds our expectations, it may harm our future results. Fiscal 2002 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2001 Revenue Revenue from our Digital Imaging and Video segment decreased during fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 primarily due to an 18% decrease in revenues from our digital video software products due to a combination of product lifecycle timing and the economic impact on the digital video software market. We also experienced a 4% overall decline in revenues from our digital imaging software products. We believe the decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products was due to a combination of the economic weakness across the world, the impact of lower marketing spending by corporations resulting in a reduced number of Creative Professional customers, and the trend of our customers migrating towards the purchasing of Adobe Collection products as opposed to individual products, which are reported in the Creative Professional segment. Revenue from our Creative Professional segment decreased in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to a 23% decrease in revenues from our business publishing products. This decrease in revenues was due to a weaker global economy in 2002 when compared to 2001. There was a 29% decline in revenues from our type and technical publishing products due to overall economic weakness in the geographic markets in which these products are used. Additionally, there was a 35% decrease in revenues from our Web publishing products which we attributed to weakness in the Web publishing market as well as less sales and marketing emphasis on these products. Finally, there was a 13% decrease in revenues from our illustration software due to product lifecycle timing and the continued economic impact on Creative Professional customers, who are the main end user for this software. The decreases in revenue in our Creative Professional segment were partially offset by a 42% increase in revenues from our professional page layout products which is attributable to a planned migration of customers from our business publishing products, increased marketing activities and growing customer demand. Revenue from our ePaper segment increased during fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to an increase in licensing of our ePaper Server Solutions products and the professional services and support revenue associated with these products. This increase is due to the acquisition of Accelio during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. 36 Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment decreased during fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001, due to the following factors: continued weakness in the print business, lower average selling prices generating less royalty revenue from certain OEM customers, and smaller OEM customers transferring to clone PostScript technologies. Geographic and Platform Information Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Americas $ 640.2 10 % $ 583.8 (1 )% $ 591.5 Percentage of total revenues 49 % 50 % 48 % EMEA 370.2 17 % 317.6 (3 )% 326.5 Percentage of total revenues 29 % 27 % 27 % Asia 284.3 8 % 263.4 (15 )% 311.7 Percentage of total revenues 22 % 23 % 25 % Total revenues $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 (5 )% $ 1,229.7 The increase in revenues, in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, in each of our geographic segments was primarily due to the strength of our ePaper desktop products. Additionally, revenue in EMEA and Asia increased due to the overall strength of the euro, in EMEA, and the yen in Asia, during fiscal 2003. The decrease in revenue from Asia in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was primarily due to weakness in the Japan economy. The decreases in the Americas and EMEA during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 were due to product lifecycle timing and a weak economy that negatively impacted the Creative Professional customer. Total application platform mix (excluding platform independent and UNIX revenues) for fiscal 2003 was split 74% on Windows and 26% on Macintosh compared to 71% and 29%, respectively, in fiscal 2002 and 70% and 30%, respectively, in fiscal 2001. We expect the trend towards the Windows platform to continue in the foreseeable future as a significant majority of our ePaper revenues are on the Windows platform. In Adobes experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects. Prior to major product releases, we tend to have significant levels of backlog, but at other times backlog is minimal and we normally ship products within a few days of receiving an order, subject to credit verification and our global channel inventory policy. Backlog is also subject to variability beyond our global channel inventory policy at the end of a reporting period, in amounts typically less than 5% of reported revenue. Our global channel inventory position continues to be within company policy. 37 Cost of Revenue Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Product $ 79.9 (18 )% $ 96.9 19 % $ 81.5 Percentage of total revenues 6 % 8 % 7 % Services and support 13.1 76 % 7.4 * % Percentage of total revenues 1 % 1 % Total cost of revenues $ 93.0 (11 )% $ 104.3 28 % $ 81.5 *Percentage is not meaningful. Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs and acquired technologies, and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. In fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002, cost of product revenue also included hosted server costs associated with the Adobe DesignTeam. Cost of product revenue decreased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to product mix. During fiscal 2003, we received higher licensing revenue versus shrink wrapped product revenue, compared to fiscal 2002, which resulted in lower material costs. Additionally, cost of product revenue for fiscal 2002 included the amortization and impairment costs associated with the Adobe DesignTeam, which was discontinued during the third quarter of fiscal 2002. An impairment charge of $5.5 million for capitalized hosted server costs associated with Adobe DesignTeam was recorded during fiscal 2002. Cost of product revenue increased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 primarily due to increased amortization of Web site development costs related to Adobe DesignTeam which was launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 and the subsequent impairment charge for the remaining development costs. Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is composed primarily of employee related costs and the related costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, and from fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to the acquisition of Accelio during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Operating Expenses Research and Development Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses 277.0 13 % $ 246.1 10 % $ 224.1 Percentage of total revenues 21 % 21 % 18 % Research and development expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs, and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. 38  Research and development expenses increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Of the 13% total increase in research and development expenses during fiscal 2003, 7 percentage points of the increase were due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation and 2 percentage points were due to an accrual for major product releases. The remaining 4 percentage points of the increase were due to various individually insignificant items. Research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to higher compensation and related benefits associated to headcount growth from the acquisition of Accelio to support product development efforts. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our desktop application and server based software products. Sales and Marketing Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses 423.4 11 % $ 380.4 (6 )% $ 403.7 Percentage of total revenues 33 % 33 % 33 % Sales and marketing expenses include salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, customer support, order management and order fulfillment personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Of the 11% total increase in sales and marketing expenses, 9 percentage points of the increase were due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth, higher incentive compensation and higher sales commissions. The remaining 2 percentage points of the increase were due to various individually insignificant items. Sales and marketing expenses decreased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to decreased marketing and advertising spending. General and Administrative Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses 122.4 13 % $ 108.1 (7 )% $ 115.6 Percentage of total revenues 9 % 9 % 9 % General and administrative expenses consist principally of salary and benefit expenses, directors and officers insurance, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our finance, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business. General and administrative expenses increased in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Of the 13% overall increase in general and administrative expenses, 12 percentage points of the increase were due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation and 4 percentage points were due to increased insurance costs. These increases were slightly offset 39 by 3 percentage points due to a decrease in depreciation related to assets that were written off in the prior fiscal year. General and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Of the 7% overall decrease, 3 percentage points were due to a decrease in contractor and professional fees, 3 percentage points were due to a decrease in facility expenses as a result of lower rent expenses, and 3 percentage points were due to a decrease in compensation and related benefits due to reduced headcount. These decreases were partially offset by 2 percentage points due to an increase in depreciation expenses. Restructuring and Other Charges Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses $ (0.5 ) * % $ 12.1 1 % $ 12.1 Percentage of total revenues 1 % 1 % *Percentage is not meaningful. During fiscal 2003, we revised our estimates of certain costs associated with our restructuring program that was implemented in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. As a result, during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2003, we reversed the excess accrual related to severance and other charges and facilities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we incurred a restructuring charge of $11.1 million, which included severance and related charges and the closure of a facility. The related restructuring program eliminated 239 engineering, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions worldwide in order to realign our resources for our future business plans. This restructuring plan was completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Also, in the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we implemented a restructuring plan to eliminate 39 redundant sales and marketing positions, held by Adobe employees worldwide, as a result of the acquisition of Accelio. The total restructuring charges, of $1.6 million, included severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force and the cost of vacating a leased facility. This restructuring plan was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2003. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we implemented a restructuring plan to realign our workforce to our future strategic goals and to align our resources with our lower fiscal 2002 revenue targets due to adverse economic conditions resulting in part from the events of September 11, 2001. This restructuring also enabled us to increase our investment in digital imaging, digital video and ePaper based businesses in fiscal 2002. The restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 was $12.1 million, all of which related to severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force. During fiscal 2002, we lowered our estimate of the total costs associated with this restructuring plan, resulting in an adjustment of approximately $0.6 million. The adjustment primarily reflected lower than estimated relocation and severance expenses and related charges. This restructuring plan was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. Acquired In Process Research and Development Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses $ * % $ 5.8 * % $ Percentage of total revenues * % *Percentage is not meaningful. 40 On April 12, 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Accelio. Accelio was a provider of Web enabled solutions that help customers manage business processes driven by electronic forms. We obtained an independent appraisers valuation to determine the amounts allocated to purchased technology and in process research and development. The valuation analysis utilized the Income Approach that takes into consideration discounted future cash flows. Based on this valuation $0.4 million was allocated to in process research and development, which was expensed as of the date of the acquisition due to the state of the development of certain products and the uncertainty of the technology. In December 2001, we acquired Fotiva. Substantially all of Fotivas assets were intellectual property. Fotiva was a development stage software company that created solutions to help consumers manage, store, enrich, and share digital photographs and other related personal media. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price of $5.4 million cash was allocated to in process research and development and expensed at the time of acquisition due to the in process state of the technology. At the date we acquired Fotiva, it was estimated that 50% of the development effort had been completed and that the remaining 50% of the development effort would take approximately eleven months to complete. The efforts required to complete the development of the technology primarily include finalization of coding, internationalization, and extensive quality assurance testing. We developed a new product, Adobe Photoshop Album, that we released in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 using Fotivas image management technology combined with our digital imaging and ePaper technologies. Amortization and Impairment of Goodwill and Purchased and Other Intangibles Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Expenses $ * % $ 21.0 47 % $ 14.3 Percentage of total revenues 2 % 1 % *Percentage is not meaningful. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized. Instead, the goodwill associated with past and any future acquisitions is reviewed annually for impairment. For further information, see Notes 1 and 5 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Intangible assets with definite lives are still being amortized and are included in cost of product revenue. During the second quarter of fiscal 2003, we assessed our goodwill for impairment. This assessment did not result in an impairment of goodwill. Amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased and other intangibles increased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge for the remaining book value of the Glassbook acquisition. The impairment charge was determined based on discounted future cash flows. 41 Non operating Income (Loss) Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Investment loss $ (12.9 ) 25 % $ (17.2 ) 82 % $ (93.4 ) Percentage of total revenues (1 )% (1 )% (8 )% Interest and other income 13.9 (6 )% 14.9 (32 )% 21.9 Percentage of total revenues 1 % 1 % 2 % Total non operating income (loss) $ 1.0 * % $ (2.3 ) 97 % $ (71.5 ) *Percentage is not meaningful. Investment Loss Investment loss consists principally of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable and non marketable equity securities, and equity method gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. During fiscal 2003, net investment losses included net losses related to our investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $12.0 million. This loss of $12.0 million was partially offset by gains of $3.1 million from the sale of our marketable equity securities. During fiscal 2003, investment losses also included write downs due to other than temporary declines in value of $4.0 million related to our short term investments in Salon Media Group, Viewpoint Corporation and Virage, Inc. During fiscal 2002, investment losses consisted of net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $13.1 million. We also recorded other than temporary write downs related to our marketable equity securities in DigitalThink, Inc., Tumbleweed Communications Corp., Engage, Inc., Virage, Inc., Viewpoint Corporation, AvantGo, Inc., and Salon Media Group, Inc. of $11.3 million. These losses were partially offset by gains totaling $7.2 million from the sale of our marketable equity securities. During fiscal 2001, investment losses consisted of other than temporary write downs related to our marketable equity securities in Tumbleweed Communications Corp., Salon Media Group, Inc., Engage, Inc., Liquent, Inc. (formerly ESPS, Inc.), AvantGo, Inc., Viewpoint Corporation, and Virage, Inc. of $53.1 million. These losses were partially offset by gains totaling $19.5 million from the sale of our marketable equity securities. We also recorded net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $59.8 million. We are uncertain of future investment gains or losses as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying companies and market valuations. These marketable equity securities are inherently risky investments and we may experience further deterioration in fair value in the future. Interest and Other Income The largest component of interest and other income is interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short term fixed income investments, but also includes gains and losses on the sale of fixed income investments, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and interest expense. While the average amount of our invested cash increased from $595.0 million in fiscal 2002 to $753.6 million in fiscal 2003, our earned interest actually decreased by $0.4 million due to the lower interest rate environment. We also recognized $1.7 million less in recognized gains on our fixed income 42 portfolio. Those decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.1 million in other miscellaneous income. Interest and other income decreased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 primarily due to a decrease in interest income of $6.0 million as a result of lower interest rates and lower realized gains of $2.5 million from the sales of fixed income investments. The decreases in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 were partially offset by a reduction in losses of $1.1 million related to the lowered cost of purchased options used in foreign currency hedging. Income Tax Provision Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Provision $ 114.1 22 % $ 93.3 (8 )% $ 101.3 Percentage of total revenues 9 % 8 % 8 % Effective tax rate 30.0 % 32.8 % 33.0 % Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2003 from fiscal 2002 and in fiscal 2002 from fiscal 2001, due to the benefits associated with the structure of our international operations. Part of the tax rate decrease in fiscal 2002 was offset by a tax rate increase, approximately 0.8%, due to the non tax deductible goodwill impairment expense.  FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE PERFORMANCE We believe that in the future our results of operations could be affected by various factors, including: general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business delays in development or shipment of our new products or major new versions of existing products difficulties in transitions to new business models or markets in the enterprise, government, consumer and creative professional markets introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, particularly Microsoft difficulties in implementing strategic alliances changes to our distribution channel inability to attract and retain key personnel lack of market acceptance of new products, upgrades and services changes in demand for application software, computers and printers intellectual property disputes and litigation industry transitions to new business models renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property licensing arrangements changes in accounting rules, such as expensing of stock options unanticipated changes in tax rates market risks associated with our equity investments (as discussed later under "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk") We periodically provide operating model targets for revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count and earnings per share. We use these targets to assist 43 us in making decisions about our allocation of resources and investments, not as predictions of future results. The targets reflect a number of assumptions, including assumptions about: product pricing and demand economic and seasonal trends manufacturing costs and volumes the mix of application products and licensing revenue, full and upgrade products, distribution channels and geographic areas These and many other factors described in this report affect our financial performance and may cause our future results to vary materially from these targets or from results from prior periods. Furthermore, if the economy worsens or the economic slow down spreads to other geographic areas where we do business, it would likely cause our future results to vary materially from our targets. The slower economy may also adversely affect our ability to grow, and political instability in any of the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our business. The end markets for our software products are intensely and increasingly competitive, and are significantly affected by product introductions and market activities of industry competitors. In the markets served by our ePaper business (which was renamed Intelligent Documents business beginning in fiscal 2004), Microsoft has recently launched a new electronic form tool called InfoPath as part of the new version of their professional Office product. We believe that Microsofts new InfoPath product competes with certain aspects of our Intelligent Documents product line. Given Microsofts market dominance, InfoPath, or any new competitive Microsoft product or technology that is bundled as part of their Office product or operating system, could harm our overall Intelligent Documents market opportunity. In addition, Microsoft is working on the next generation of its Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn, which could be released as early as late 2005. It is anticipated that Microsoft will add new electronic document capabilities to Longhorn, potentially providing additional competition to our Intelligent Document products and solutions. Furthermore, Microsoft has increased its presence in the low end and mid range consumer digital imaging markets. If competing Microsoft products achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Any further consolidations among our competitors may result in stronger competitors and may therefore harm our results of operations. Also, as we seek to further broaden our customer base in the enterprise, government, consumer and creative professional markets, we may not successfully adapt our application software products, business models, or licensing and distribution channels to these changes, which could cause our operating results to suffer. If we are unable to successfully implement as planned any of our strategic alliances or develop the necessary relationships with enough significant systems integrators to adapt to these changes, our business could be harmed. Additionally, these new markets may result in higher costs and higher acceptance, warranty and indemnification risks than our other markets. We plan to recruit key talent for our future growth, especially to support our enterprise business. Competition for such high quality personnel, especially highly skilled engineers, is intense. Our ability to effectively manage this growth will require us to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and information management systems; otherwise our business could be seriously harmed. We rely on equity compensation in order to recruit and retain highly skilled employees in a competitive environment. If we are unable to provide adequate equity compensation incentives to effectively recruit and retain talented employees, our business may be harmed. Any delays or failures in developing and marketing our products, including upgrades of current products, may also have a harmful impact on our results of operations. Our ability to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect our ability to develop these products. A portion of our future revenue will come from 44 these new applications. Delays in product or upgrade introductions could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price. We cannot determine the ultimate effect these delays or the introduction of new products or upgrades will have on our revenue or results of operations. We offer our application based products primarily on Windows and Macintosh platforms and on some UNIX platforms. We generally offer our server based products, but not desktop products, on the Linux platform as well as the Windows and UNIX platforms. To the extent that there is a slowdown of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on the Linux desktop platform before we choose and are able to offer our products on this platform, our business could be harmed. We distribute our application products primarily through distributors, resellers, retailers and increasingly systems integrators, ISVs and VARs (collectively referred to as "distributors"). A significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two distributors. In addition, our channel program now focuses our efforts on larger distributors, which has resulted in our dependence on a relatively small number of distributors licensing a large amount of our products. Our distributors sell our competitors products; if our distributors favor our competitors products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. In addition, the financial health of these distributors and our continuing relationships with them are becoming more important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third party rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation as part of our policy to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, including rights derived from third party licensors. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Adverse decisions in such litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, or causing severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, although we actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, we do lose revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. Our computer network and applications could be adversely impacted by malicious code such as worms and viruses, which are released into the public Internet using recently discovered vulnerabilities in popular software programs. The documents created by our applications, even those with security features, are also vulnerable to malicious acts such as hacking. Although we have a response team that is notified of high risk malicious events from multiple sources and we take certain preventative measures, these procedures may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our business. We currently rely on six turnkey assemblers of our products, with at least two turnkeys located in each major region we serve. If any significant turnkey assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any significant turnkey assembler is interrupted or terminated for any other reason, we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products manufactured by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our business. Although revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment remained relatively stable during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, we expect revenue from this segment to decline in the future. Our 45 overall business may be harmed if the magnitude of the decline significantly exceeds our expectations. The continuing weakness in the economy and aggressive competition among printer manufacturers is contributing to pressure on the average selling price of printers, which may result in the reduction of our royalty arrangements or the adoption by an OEM of alternative technology. The Internet market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants that have introduced or developed products addressing authoring and communications over the Internet. As is typical in the case of a new and evolving industry, demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. The industry for software that addresses authoring and communications over the Internet is still developing. Standards defining Web graphics have not yet been fully adopted. In addition, new models for licensing software may be needed to accommodate new information delivery practices. The new models may be less lucrative for us than our existing business models. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet (including security, reliability, ease of use and access, cost and quality of service) remain unresolved and may affect the growth of Internet use, together with the software standards and electronic media employed in such markets. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors. These factors include: delays in development or shipment of our new products or major new versions of existing products any seasonality of technology purchases in our geographical markets difficulties in transitions to new business models or markets, including the enterprise and government markets any delays in recognizing revenue on any transaction any changes in general economic conditions changes in our pricing policies or the policies of our competitors changes to our product offering models, including the Creative Suites platform Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have significant financial impact. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade offs among risk, opportunity and expense. We have established a hedging program to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We regularly review our hedging program and will make adjustments based on our judgment. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the "AICPA"), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: software revenue recognition accounting for stock options accounting for variable interest entities accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets accounting for guarantees and indemnities 46 In particular, new FASB guidelines relating to accounting for goodwill could make our acquisition related charges less predictable in any given reporting period. It is possible that in the future, we may incur less frequent, but larger, impairment charges related to goodwill we have already recorded, as well as goodwill arising out of potential future acquisitions. See "Goodwill and Purchased and Other Intangible Assets" in Note 1 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this new FASB pronouncement. Changes to these rules or the questioning of current practices may have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We hold equity investments in public companies that have experienced significant declines in market value. We also have investments and may continue to make future investments in privately held companies, many of which are considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income. We recorded pre tax losses from marketable securities and other investments in privately held companies of $12.9 million, $17.2 million and $93.4 million during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These amounts reflect realized losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable equity securities and net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments. In fiscal 2003 and 2002, decreases in the market prices of our marketable equity securities resulted in decreases in our pre tax income. Future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long term declines in value of any of our investments could reduce our net income in future periods. We are uncertain about future investment gains and losses, as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies. Due to the factors noted above, our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings or any delay in the release of any product or upgrade compared to analysts or investors expectations has caused and could cause in the future an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not learn of such shortfalls or delays until late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. Finally, we participate in a highly dynamic industry. In addition to factors specific to us, changes in analysts earnings estimates for us or our industry, and factors affecting the corporate environment, our industry, or the securities markets in general, will often result in volatility of our common stock price. 47   EMPLOYEE AND DIRECTOR STOCK OPTIONS Option Program Description Our stock option program is a long term retention program that is intended to attract, retain and provide incentives for talented employees, officers and directors, and to align stockholder and employee interests. We consider our stock option program critical to our operation and productivity. Option vesting periods are generally three years for all of the plans within our stock option program. For further information regarding our stock option program, see Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. All stock option grants to executive officers are made after a review by and with the approval of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. All members of the Executive Compensation Committee are independent directors, as defined in the current rules applicable to issuers traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market. See the "Report of the Executive Compensation Committee" appearing in our 2004 Proxy Statement for further information concerning the policies and procedures, of the Company and the Executive Compensation Committee, regarding the use of stock options for executive officers. In May 2003, a stock option exchange program was initiated that allowed eligible employees to exchange options granted with an option price greater than $40 per share for a lesser number of new options, according to specified exchange ratios. The program excluded executive officers and members of our Board of Directors. The cancellation date for the program was June 16, 2003. On June 17, 2003 we accepted for cancellation, options to purchase approximately 7.1 million shares of common stock. On December 17, 2003, eligible employees received new options to purchase approximately 3.4 million shares of common stock, in exchange for such cancelled options, with an exercise price of $39.10. The tables below include options to purchase 3.5 million shares as estimated as of November 28, 2003. Distribution and Dilutive Effect of Options The table below provides information about stock options granted for fiscal years 2003, 2002, and 2001 to our Chief Executive Officer and our four other most highly compensated executive officers as of November 28, 2003. This group is referred to as the Named Executive Officers. Please refer to the section below, titled "Stock Option Exercises and Option Holdings," for the Named Executive Officers. Options granted to employees, directors and Named Executive Officers for the fiscal years 2001 through 2003 are summarized as follows (*): 2003 2002 2001 Net grants during the period as % of outstanding shares (3 )% 3 % 6 % Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of total options granted 0 % 21 % 11 % Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of outstanding shares 0 % 1 % 1 % Cumulative options held by Named Executive Officers as % of total options outstanding 16 % 15 % 12 % (*)"Net grants" equals the sum of the number of shares subject to options granted during the specified period reduced by the number of shares subject to options which were canceled or otherwise terminated during such period. Net grants as a percentage of outstanding shares are based on 238.3 million shares, 232.0 million shares, and 236.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of November 28, 2003, November 29, 2002 and November 30, 2001, respectively. 48 During fiscal 2003, we granted options to purchase approximately 2.0 million shares of our stock to our employees and directors and canceled approximately 9.4 million shares. For additional information about our employee stock option plan activity for the years 2001 through 2003, and pro forma earnings presentation as if we had accounted for our grant of employee stock options using the fair value method of accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS No. 123"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," refer to Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not grant any stock options to our Named Executive Officers in fiscal 2003. Options granted to the Named Executive Officers as a percentage of the total options granted to all employees and directors vary from year to year. For additional information about the compensation of our executive officers and stock option grants to our Named Executive Officers, refer to our 2004 Proxy Statement. General Option Information The following table sets forth the summary of option activity under our stock option program for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in actual amounts): Outstanding Options Options Available for Grant Number of Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price (in actual amounts) December 1, 2000 26,911,978 45,017,400 $ 38.26 Granted (19,177,315 ) 19,177,315 28.38 Exercised (4,826,823 ) 12.55 Canceled 5,083,575 (5,083,575 ) 44.89 November 30, 2001 12,818,238 54,284,317 36.66 Granted (11,973,680 ) 11,973,680 28.77 Exercised (3,688,534 ) 15.99 Canceled 4,722,413 (4,722,413 ) 45.20 November 29, 2002 5,566,971 57,847,050 35.64 Granted (1,994,130 ) 1,994,130 33.12 Exercised (7,978,054 ) 23.81 Canceled 9,388,535 (9,393,473 ) 58.00 Expired (8,006 ) November 28, 2003 12,953,370 42,469,653 32.80 The following table sets forth a comparison, as of November 28, 2003, of the number of shares subject to our options whose exercise prices were at or below the closing price of our common stock on November 28, 2003 ("In the Money" options) to the number of shares subject to options whose exercise 49 prices were greater than the closing price of our common stock on such date ("Out of the Money" options): Exercisable Unexercisable Total Percentage of Total Options Outstanding (in actual shares) In the Money(*) 20,165,696 14,930,020 35,095,716 83 % Out of the Money(*) 7,074,844 299,093 7,373,937 17 % Total Options Outstanding 27,240,540 15,229,113 42,469,653 100 % (*)The closing price of our common stock was $41.31 on November 28, 2003, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. Stock Option Exercises and Option Holdings The following table shows aggregated stock options exercised by the Named Executive Officers in fiscal 2003, including the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. In addition, the number of shares covered by both exercisable and non exercisable stock options, as of November 28, 2003, is shown. Also reported are the values for "In the Money" options. The dollar amounts shown in the "In the Money" column represent the positive spread between the exercise price of any such existing stock options and closing price as of November 28, 2003 of our common stock. Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options at November 28, 2003 Value of Unexercised In the Money Options at November 28, 2003(2) Name Number of Shares Acquired Upon Exercise Value Realized Upon Exercise(1) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable (in actual shares and dollars) Bruce R. Chizen 350,000 $ 4,246,000 1,853,239 956,252 $ 6,791,996 $ 13,845,170 Shantanu Narayen 310,150 4,443,441 947,589 548,961 4,200,383 7,927,622 Murray J. Demo 243,325 4,124,788 758,706 498,961 2,226,070 7,218,842 Jim Stephens 241,666 2,672,235 508,958 338,544 1,754,895 4,879,326 James Heeger 179,166 370,834 1,401,540 3,742,960 (1)The "value realized" represents the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. See related Section 16 filings for detailed information on dispositions of shares. (2)Option values are based on $41.31, the closing price of our common stock on November 28, 2003, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. 50 Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information about our common stock that may be issued under our existing equity compensation plans as of November 28, 2003 (in actual amounts): Plan Category(1) Number of Securities to Be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options (a) Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders 42,457,107 $ 32.80 29,930,261 (2) (1)The information presented in this table excludes options assumed by Adobe in connection with acquisitions of other companies. As of November 28, 2003, 0.01 million shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of these assumed options, at a weighted average exercise price of $6.31 per share. (2)Includes 14.2 million shares that are reserved for issuance under the 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 3.5 million shares that were estimated, as of November 28, 2003, to be issued as a result of the option exchange program.  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Year Ended November 28, 2003 % Change 2002 to 2003 Year Ended November 29, 2002 % Change 2001 to 2002 Year Ended November 30, 2001 Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments $ 1,096.5 78 % $ 617.7 6 % $ 581.6 Working capital 892.5 104 % 436.9 (4 )% 453.7 Stockholders equity 1,100.8 63 % 674.3 9 % 617.0 Adobe ended fiscal 2003 with $1,096.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, an increase of $478.8 million compared to fiscal 2002 year end. Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll (salaries, bonuses, and benefits), general operating expenses (marketing, travel, office rent) and cost of product revenue. Another source of cash is proceeds from the exercise of employee options and another use of cash is our stock repurchase program, which is detailed below. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2003 of $433.1 million primarily comprised net income, net non cash related expenses of $140.1 million, and increases in accrued expenses, income taxes payable and deferred revenue. Accrued expenses increased primarily due to incentive compensation related costs, sales and marketing programs, legal fees and accruals for major product releases. Income taxes payable increased due to an increase in taxable income. Deferred revenue increased primarily due to increased maintenance obligations. These increases were partially offset by an increase in receivables at the end of the year and a decrease in accrued restructuring charges. The increase in receivables was primarily due to the increase in revenues during the year. The decrease in accrued restructuring is primarily due to the payments of severance and facility costs. During fiscal 2002, cash provided by operating activities of $329.3 million was primarily due to net income, net non cash related expenses of $118.9 million, an increase in income taxes payable and deferred revenue and a decrease in accounts receivable. Income taxes payable increased due to an increase in taxable income. Deferred revenue increased primarily due to increased maintenance obligations. The decrease in trade receivables was primarily due to our improved collections during fiscal 2002. These 51 increases in cash were partially offset by a decrease in accrued restructuring charges and accrued expenses. Accrued restructuring charges decreased primarily due to the payment of severance and related charges. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to incentive compensation related costs. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2001 of $418.7 million was primarily due to net income, net non cash related expenses of $197.1 million, and a net increase in operating assets and liabilities of $16.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2003 of $548.4 million increased from cash used in fiscal 2002 of $142.3 million, primarily due to purchases of short term investments, net of maturities and sales. The increase in purchases of short term investments is attributable to an increase in cash from operations and proceeds from the re issuance of treasury stock during fiscal 2003. Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2002 increased from cash used in fiscal 2001 of $26.4 million primarily due to increased purchases of short term investments because of lower treasury stock purchases. Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2003 of $117.0 million increased from cash used in fiscal 2002 of $223.3 million. During fiscal 2003, more employees exercised their stock options due to higher stock prices. In fiscal 2003, the net result of exercised options and stock repurchases was an inflow of $128.6 million due to the rise in stock price and lower stock repurchases as we were targeting higher cash levels. Cash used for financing activities for fiscal 2002 decreased from cash used in fiscal 2001 of $409.6 million primarily due to stock repurchase activities. Cash used for stock repurchases in fiscal 2002 decreased due to a lower average per share cost. We have paid cash dividends on our common stock each quarter since the second quarter of 1988. Adobes Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.0125 per common share for each of the four quarters in fiscal 2003 and 2002. Under the terms of our lease agreements for our San Jose headquarters, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless an event of default occurs. The declaration of future dividends, whether in cash or in kind, is within the discretion of Adobes Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our results of operations and financial condition, and other factors. We expect to continue our investing activities, including investments in short term and long term investments and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase programs and strategically acquire software companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Adobe uses highly regarded investment management firms to manage most of our invested cash. The total return on invested balances in fiscal 2003 was 3.45%, exceeding the industry standard benchmarks established for our investment management firms. External investment firms actively managed 88% of Adobes invested balances during the year. The fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in municipal bonds within the U.S. and in highly rated corporate and sovereign obligations outside of the U.S. The balance of the fixed income portfolio is managed internally and invested primarily in money market funds for working capital purposes. All investments are made according to guidelines and within compliance of policies approved by the Board of Directors. Our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances may decline during fiscal 2004 in the event of further weakening of the economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances together with our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. Cash from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in the section "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." Also, while we currently have no committed lines of credit, we believe 52 that our banking relationships and good credit should afford us the opportunity to raise sufficient debt in the bank or public market, if required. Stock Repurchase Program I On going Dilution Coverage To facilitate our stock repurchase program designed to minimize dilution from stock issuance primarily from employee stock plans, we have historically repurchased shares in the open market, sold put warrants and purchased call options. Authorization to repurchase shares to cover on going dilution is not subject to expiration. However, this repurchase program is limited to covering net dilution from stock issuances and is subject to business conditions and cash flow requirements as determined by our Board of Directors from time to time. In fiscal 2003, we did not sell any put warrants. In fiscal 2002 and 2001, we sold approximately 7.5 million and 5.6 million put warrants, respectively. Each put warrant entitled the holder to sell one share of Adobes common stock to Adobe at a specified price for cash or stock at Adobes option. At November 28, 2003, no put warrants were outstanding. In fiscal 2003, we did not purchase any call options. In fiscal 2002 and 2001, we purchased call options that entitled us to buy 4.9 million and 3.9 million shares, respectively, of our common stock on certain dates at specified prices. At November 28, 2003, no call options were outstanding. Stock Repurchase Program II Additional Authorization above Dilution Coverage In April 1999, the Board authorized a 5.0 million share repurchase program, which allowed us to purchase shares in the open market and enter into contracts to repurchase shares during future quarters by selling put warrants and buying call options. This program expired in fiscal 2001. In March 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a program to purchase up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a two year period, subject to certain business and cash flow requirements. The program expired on March 2, 2003. On September 25, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized a program to purchase up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a three year period, subject to certain business and cash flow requirements. The authorization for this program will expire in September 2005. The tables below represent our authorized stock repurchase plans and summary of stock repurchases as of November 28, 2003. Authorized Stock Repurchase Plans as of November 28, 2003 (in thousands) Board Approval Date Expiration Date Authorized Shares Repurchases To Date Authorization Expired Remaining Authorization December 1997 N/A Ongoing dilution 47,319 N/A 23,526 (1) April 1999 April 2001 5,000 4,687 313 March 2001 March 2003 5,000 2,014 2,986 September 2002 September 2005 5,000 5,000 (1)The remaining authorization for the ongoing stock repurchase plan is determined by subtracting repurchases from all stock issuances, net of any canceled shares, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 1998. 53 Summary of Stock Repurchases for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except average amounts) Board Approval Date Repurchases Under the Plan 2003 Average 2002 Average 2001 Average December 1997 From employees(1) Open market Option exercises(2) 18 1,185 1,584 $ 34.99 32.96 28.47 83 8,517 $ 35.55 29.60 733 452 4,726 $ 42.01 35.64 57.78 April 1999 Open market Option exercises(2) 4,687 35.24 March 2001 Open market Option exercises(2) 1,899 115 18.40 28.58 March 2001 Open market Option exercises(2) Total shares 2,787 $ 30.42 10,614 $ 27.63 10,598 $ 45.77 Total cost $ 84,777 $ 293,241 $ 485,115 Shares used in computing diluted income per share 241,450 243,119 249,145 (1)The repurchases from employees represent shares canceled when surrendered in lieu of cash payments for the option exercise price or withholding taxes due. (2)These are exercises of outstanding put and call options. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of November 28, 2003, consist of obligations under operating leases, real estate financing agreements, royalty agreements and various service agreements. We expect to fulfill all of the following commitments from our working capital. Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2091. Rent expense, net of sublease income, for these leases aggregated $32.4 million, $26.6 million and $22.0 million during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In September 2001, we entered into a real estate development agreement for the construction of an additional office building for our corporate headquarters in downtown San Jose, California. Under the agreement, the lessor agreed to finance up to $117.0 million over a two year period, toward the construction and associated costs of the building. The construction of the building was completed in December 2003. Due to lower than expected financing and construction costs, the final lease balance was lowered to $103.0 million. As part of the agreement, we entered into a five year lease that began upon the completion of the building. At the end of the lease term, we can purchase the building for the lease balance, remarket or relinquish the building. If we choose to remarket or are required to do so upon relinquishing the building, we are bound to arrange the sale of the building to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lease balance, up to the maximum recourse amount of $90.8 million ("residual value guarantee"). See Note 14 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 54 In August 1999, we entered into a five year lease agreement for our other two office buildings that currently serve as our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California. Under the agreement, we have the option to purchase the buildings at any time during the lease term for the lease balance, which is approximately $142.5 million. We are in the process of evaluating alternative financing methods at expiration of the lease in fiscal 2004 and believe that several suitable financing options will be available to us. At the end of the lease term, we can purchase the buildings for the lease balance, remarket or relinquish the buildings. If we choose to remarket or are required to do so upon relinquishing the buildings, we are bound to arrange the sale of the buildings to an unrelated party and will be required to pay the lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the lease balance, up to the maximum recourse amount of $132.6 million ("residual value guarantee"). For further information, see Note 14 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The two lease agreements discussed above are subject to standard financial covenants. The agreements limit the amount of indebtedness we can incur. A leverage covenant requires us to keep our debt to EBITDA ratio less than 2.5:1.0. As of November 28, 2003, our debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.53:1.0, well within the limit. We also have a liquidity covenant which requires us to maintain a quick ratio equal to or greater than 1.0. As of November 28, 2003, our quick ratio was 2.2, well above the minimum. We expect to remain within compliance in the next 12 months. We are comfortable with these limitations and believe they will not impact our cash or credit in the coming year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. The following table summarizes our contractual commitments as of November 28, 2003: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Over 5 years Non cancelable operating leases, net of sublease income $ 83.9 $ 23.6 $ 25.9 $ 16.3 $ 18.1 Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. We have commitments to make certain milestone and or retention payments typically entered into in conjunction with various acquisitions, for which we have made accruals in our consolidated financial statements. In connection with our purchases of technology assets during fiscal 2003, we entered into employee retention agreements totaling $2.2 million. We are required to make payments upon satisfaction of certain conditions in the agreements. As permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officers or directors lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. As part of our limited partnership interests in Adobe Ventures, we have provided a general indemnification to Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures, for certain events or occurrences while Granite Ventures is, or was serving, at our request 55 in such capacity provided that Granite Ventures acts in good faith on behalf of the partnerships. We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments that could potentially result from any hypothetical future claim, but believe the risk of having to make any payments under this general indemnification to be remote. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded under our cost of products revenue on our consolidated statements of income, was approximately $14.5 million, $14.4 million and $14.1 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other Information Consistent with Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we are responsible for listing the audit and non audit services pre approved in the fourth quarter of 2003 by our Audit Committee to be performed by KPMG LLP, our external auditor. Each of the permitted non audit services has been pre approved by the Audit Committee or the Audit Committees Chairman pursuant to delegated authority by the Audit Committee, other than de minimus non audit services for which the pre approval requirements are waived in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Audit Committee pre approved the following non audit services anticipated to be performed by KPMG LLP: 1) fiscal 2003 tax return services and 2) general tax consulting services. 56   ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS All market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for non trading purposes. Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments We transact business in foreign countries, in U.S. dollars and in various foreign currencies. In Europe and Japan, those transactions that are denominated in euro or yen subject us to exposure from movements in foreign currency exchange rates. This exposure is primarily related to yen denominated product and support revenue in Japan and euro denominated product and support revenue in certain European countries. In fiscal 2003 and 2002, our exposures were 21.3 billion yen and 20.5 billion yen, respectively. In fiscal 2003 and 2002, our exposures were 274.0 million euros and 288.5 million euros, respectively. In addition we also have long term investment exposures consisting of the capitalization and retained earnings in our non USD functional foreign subsidiaries. For the fiscal years ending November 28, 2003 and November 29, 2002 this long term investment exposure totaled a notional equivalent of $30.8 million and $33.9 million, respectively. At this time we do not hedge these long term investment exposures. Our Japanese operating expenses are in yen, and our European operating expenses are primarily in euro, which mitigates a portion of the exposure related to yen and euro denominated product revenue. In addition, we hedge firmly committed transactions using forward contracts. These contracts do subject us to risk of accounting gains and losses; however, the gains and losses on these contracts largely offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. We also hedge a percentage of forecasted international revenue with forward and purchased option contracts. Our revenue hedging policy is designed to reduce the negative impact on our forecasted revenue due to foreign currency exchange rate movements. At November 28, 2003, total outstanding contracts included the notional equivalent of $191.5 million in foreign currency forward exchange contracts and purchased put option contracts with a notional value of $112.4 million. As of November 28, 2003, all contracts were set to expire at various times through April 2004. The bank counterparties in these contracts expose us to credit related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk we only contract with counterparties with specific minimum rating requirements. In addition, our hedging policy establishes maximum limits for each counterparty. Economic Hedging Hedges of Forecasted Transactions We use option and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain operational ("cash flow") exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities between one and twelve months. Such cash flow exposures result from portions of our forecasted revenues denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We enter into these foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecasted product licensing revenue in the normal course of business, and accordingly, they are not speculative in nature. We record changes in the intrinsic value of these cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until the forecasted transaction occurs. When the forecasted transaction occurs, we reclassify the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income at that time. For the fiscal year ended November 28, 2003, there were no such net gains or losses recognized in other income relating to hedges of forecasted transactions that did not occur. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying forecasted transactions. The changes in fair value of the derivatives are intended to offset changes in the expected 57 cash flows from the forecasted transactions. We record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income. The time value of purchased derivative instruments is deemed to be ineffective and is recorded in other income (loss) over the life of the contract. See also Note 15 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Balance Sheet Hedging Hedging of Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities We hedge our net recognized foreign currency assets and liabilities with forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative instruments hedge assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recorded as other income (loss). These derivative instruments do not subject us to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to offset gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. At November 28, 2003, the outstanding balance sheet hedging derivatives had maturities of 90 days or less. A sensitivity analysis was performed on all of our foreign exchange derivatives as of November 28, 2003. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value resulting from a 10% and 15% shift in the value of exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. For option contracts, the Black Scholes equation model was used. For forward contracts, duration modeling was used where hypothetical changes are made to the spot rates of the currency. A 10% and 15% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar (and a corresponding decrease in the value of the hedged foreign currency asset) would lead to an increase in the fair value of our financial hedging instruments by $21.3 million and $34.0 million, respectively. Conversely, a 10% and 15% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar would result in a decrease in the fair value of these financial instruments by $16.3 million and $24.7 million, respectively. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. As a general rule, we do not use financial instruments to hedge local currency denominated operating expenses in countries where a natural hedge exists. For example, in many countries revenue from the local currency product licenses substantially offsets the local currency denominated operating expenses. We assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency exposures, primarily related to operating expenses, on an ongoing basis. We regularly review our hedging program and may as part of this review determine at any time to change our hedging program. See also Note 15 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity Investments We are exposed to equity price risk on our portfolio of marketable equity securities. As of November 28, 2003, our total equity holdings in publicly traded companies were valued at $7.2 million compared to $14.1 million at November 29, 2002, a decrease of 49%. The decrease was due to sales of $4.0 million and write downs of $4.0 million, which were partially offset by a $1.1 million increase in market value adjustment. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the fair values of these securities could adversely change in the near term. We have a policy in place to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each companys cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline in value exists in one of our marketable equity 58 securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related write down in our consolidated statements of income. The following table represents the potential decrease in fair values of our marketable equity securities that are sensitive to changes in the stock market. Fair value deteriorations of 50%, 35%, and 15% were selected based on the probability of their occurrence. 50% 35% 15% Marketable equity securities $ (3.6 ) $ (2.5 ) $ (1.1 ) Fixed Income Investments At November 28, 2003, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those classified as cash equivalents, of $1,069.0 million compared to $581.7 million at November 29, 2002, an increase of 84%. This increase was primarily due to strong operational cash flow, proceeds from stock option exercises and lower levels of stock repurchases. These securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of our fixed income investments. The table below separates the remaining maturities of our fixed income securities into segments to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. Less than one year $ 517.8 One year to two years 322.0 Greater than two years 229.2 Total $ 1,069.0 A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of November 28, 2003. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over six month and twelve month time horizons. The following table represents the potential decrease to the value of our fixed income securities given a negative shift in the yield curve used in our sensitivity analysis. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (5.0 ) $ (9.9 ) $ (14.5 ) 12 month horizon $ (4.2 ) $ (8.4 ) $ (13.9 ) We limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk by establishing and monitoring clear policies and guidelines for our fixed income portfolios. At the present time, the maximum duration of all portfolios is limited to 2.5 years. The guidelines also establish credit quality standards, limits on exposure to any one security issue, limits on exposure to any one issuer and limits on exposure to the type of instrument. Due to limited duration and credit risk criteria established in our guidelines we do not expect the exposure to interest rate risk and credit risk to be material. Interest Rate Hedging Instruments We are exposed to interest rate risk on operating lease obligations that are tied to short term interest rates (LIBOR). While the exposure of our fixed income portfolio to similar short term interest rates may naturally offset some of the risk, in general as short term interest rates rise, it may negatively impact our operating income. It is our strategy to hedge a portion of that risk. Our policy permits us to hedge this interest rate risk using swap agreements. The swap agreements exchange variable interest rate payments for fixed interest rate payments with high quality counterparties. Our swaps are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 because they hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying lease obligation, so the 59 change in fair value of the swaps is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. If, for some reason, the terms of the hedge no longer matched the underlying obligation, the change in value of the ineffective portion would be recognized in other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income. Our swaps mature at various dates through the third quarter of fiscal 2004, consistent with the expiration of the underlying lease obligations. The total amount of lease obligations subject to interest rate risk is $245.5 million. We have hedged $121.8 million using interest rate swaps. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our interest rate hedges as of November 28, 2003. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of minus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over a six month time horizon. The following table represents the potential decrease to the value of our interest rate hedges given a negative shift in the yield curve used in our sensitivity analysis. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (0.1 ) $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) See also Note 15 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Privately Held Investments We have direct investments, as well as indirect investments through Adobe Ventures, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, and we could lose a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. It is our policy to review privately held investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying amount and economic viability of these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes and competition. The evaluation process is based on information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. See also Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 60  
