ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion (presented in millions, except share and per share amounts) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements, including statements regarding product plans and investing activities, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this section under "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q to be filed in 2005. When used in this report, the words "expects," "could," "would", "may," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "targets," "estimates," "looks for," "looks to," and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding Adobes focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.  OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe offers a line of software and services for consumers, creative professionals and enterprises, in both private and public sectors. Our products enable customers to create, manage and deliver visually rich, compelling and reliable content. We distribute our products through a network of distributors and dealers, VARs, systems integrators, ISVs and OEMs; direct to end users; and through our own Web site at www.adobe.com. We also license our technology to major hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of all sizes. We have operations in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia. Our software runs on Microsoft Windows, Apple Macintosh, Linux, UNIX and various non personal computer platforms, depending on the product.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis we evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. We discuss below the critical accounting estimates associated with these policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. For further information on our critical accounting policies, see the discussion in the section titled "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" below and Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with current generally accepted accounting principles that have been prescribed for the software industry. Revenue recognition requirements in the software industry are very complex and are subject to change. Our revenue recognition policy is one of our 36 critical accounting policies because revenue is a key component of our results of operations and is based on complex rules which require us to make judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions, if any, must be deferred. In order to determine current and deferred revenue, we make judgments and estimates with regard to future deliverable products and services and the appropriate pricing for those products and services. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future products and services could differ from actual events, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. We have to estimate provisions for returns which are recorded against our revenues. In determining our estimate for returns, and in accordance with our internal policy regarding global channel inventory which is used to determine the level of product held by our distributors on which we have recognized revenue, we rely upon historical data, the estimated amount of product inventory in our distribution channel, the rate at which our product sells through to the end user, product plans and other factors. Our estimated provisions for returns can vary from what actually occurs. More or less product may be returned from what was estimated. The amount of inventory in the channel could be different than what is estimated. Our estimate of the rate of sell through for product in the channel could be different than what actually occurs. There could be a delay in the release of our products. These factors and unanticipated changes in the economic and industry environment could make our return estimates differ from actual returns, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations. Accounting for Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Management must make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates, thus materially impacting our financial position and results of operations.  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") recently enacted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123 revised 2004 ("SFAS 123R"), "Share Based Payment" which replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"), "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." SFAS 123R requires the measurement of all employee share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair value based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The accounting provisions of SFAS 123R are effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. 37 We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. See Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the pro forma net income and net income per share amounts, for fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2004, as if we had used a fair value based method similar to the methods required under SFAS 123R to measure compensation expense for employee stock incentive awards. Although we have not yet determined whether the adoption of SFAS 123R will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, we are evaluating the requirements under SFAS 123R and expect the adoption to have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated statements of income and net income per share. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2 ("FAS 109 2"), "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004 ("AJCA")." See "Income Tax Provision" under "Results of Operations" and Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding FAS 109 2. See Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding other recent accounting pronouncements. 38   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of 2004 During the fiscal 2004, we continued to focus on delivering comprehensive technology platforms for enterprises and creative professionals to drive revenue and earnings growth. Our latest Acrobat desktop products, released during fiscal 2003, continued to perform well which indicates we are making progress against our Intelligent Documents segment strategy to increase the adoption of Acrobat. Our Intelligent Documents initiatives continue to deliver a comprehensive server based platform to help governments and enterprises improve their business processes. Our Intelligent Documents server revenue has achieved both strong sequential and year over year revenue growth. Additionally, we believe our strategy of providing creative professionals a complete design platform is resonating with our customers. The success we achieved in fiscal 2003 in our Creative Professional business segment continued in fiscal 2004 due to strong licensing of our Adobe Creative Suites and CS products. We continue to focus on delivering innovative products and solutions for our customers. However, our success could be limited by several factors, including the timely release of new products, continued market acceptance of our products, the introduction of new products by existing or new competitors and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations. For a further discussion of these and other risk factors, see the section titled "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." Revenue Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Product $ 1,634.0 29 % $ 1,269.0 10 % $ 1,153.2 Percentage of total revenues 98 % 98 % 99 % Services and support 32.6 27 % 25.7 122 % 11.6 Percentage of total revenues 2 % 2 % 1 % Total revenues $ 1,666.6 29 % $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 We have four reportable segments: Digital Imaging and Video, Creative Professional, Intelligent Documents, and OEM PostScript and Other. The Digital Imaging and Video segment provides users with software for creating, editing, enhancing and sharing digital images and photographs, digital video, audio and animations. The Creative Professional segment provides software for professional page layout, professional Web page layout, graphic and illustration creation, technical document publishing and business publishing. Additionally, this segment provides Photoshop and Acrobat Professional as part of its Adobe Creative Suite products. The Intelligent Documents segment provides electronic document distribution software that allows users to create, enhance, annotate and securely send Adobe PDF files that can be shared, viewed, navigated and printed exactly as intended on a broad range of hardware and software platforms. In addition, this segment provides server based solutions for enterprises, in the areas of document generation, document process management, document collaboration, and document control and security. The OEM PostScript and Other segment includes printing technology used to create and print simple or visually rich documents with precision. Our services and support revenue is composed of professional services (such as consulting services and training) and maintenance and support, primarily related to the licensing of our Intelligent Documents server solution products. Our support revenue also includes technical support and developer support to partners and developer organizations related to our desktop products. Our professional services revenue is recognized using the percentage of completion method and is measured monthly based on input measures, such as hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours to complete, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers to receive product upgrades and 39 enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Digital Imaging and Video $ 430.2 10 % $ 392.4 (5 )% $ 411.9 Percentage of total revenues 26 % 30 % 35 % Creative Professional 613.1 66 % 368.5 5 % 351.3 Percentage of total revenues 37 % 29 % 30 % Intelligent Documents 541.8 22 % 444.1 42 % 312.6 Percentage of total revenues 32 % 34 % 27 % OEM PostScript and Other 81.5 (9 )% 89.7 1 % 89.0 Percentage of total revenues 5 % 7 % 8 % Total revenues $ 1,666.6 29 % $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 Fiscal 2004 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2003 Revenue Revenue from our Digital Imaging and Video segment increased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to increases in revenues from both our digital video and digital imaging software products. Revenue from our digital video software products increased 9% during fiscal 2004 which was attributable to new releases during fiscal 2004. Revenue from our digital imaging software products increased 10% during fiscal 2004 due to continued success with Adobe Photoshop CS which was released at the end of fiscal 2003 as well as the release of Photoshop Elements 3.0 in fiscal 2004. Revenue from our Creative Professional segment increased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to the continued strength of our Adobe Creative Suite products which were initially released in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The increase in revenues from our Adobe Creative Suite products were partially offset by decreases in revenues in our business and technical page layout software products due to product lifecycle timing. Revenue from our Intelligent Documents segment increased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to a 17% increase in revenues from our Acrobat desktop products as a result of continued adoption of Acrobat desktop products launched in fiscal 2003. Additionally, revenue from our Intelligent Documents server based products increased 50% due to increased licensing and server support revenue. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment decreased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to a decline in pricing resulting from competition from clone PostScript technologies and lower prices of output devices. Revenue from this segment has declined over the last few years and we expect this trend to continue, but if the decline significantly exceeds our expectations, it may harm our future results. Fiscal 2003 Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2002 Revenue Revenue from our Digital Imaging and Video segment decreased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to a decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products. Overall, we experienced a 7% decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products, which was mainly attributable to product lifecycle timing. With the introduction of Adobe Creative Suite, which includes Photoshop, we experienced a shift in revenue from Photoshop to the Adobe Creative Suite which is reported in the Creative Professional segment. The 7% decrease in revenues from our digital imaging software products was partially offset by an 8% increase in revenues from our digital video software products. The increase in revenues from our digital video software products was due primarily to new releases of Adobe Video Collection. 40 Revenue from our Creative Professional segment increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to a 57% increase in revenues from the release of new products during fiscal 2003, including the introduction of Adobe Creative Suite, as well as our professional page layout products. This increase was partially offset by decreases in revenues from our other products in the Creative Professional segment. Revenues from our business publishing products decreased 26% due to the planned migration of customers to our professional page layout products. Finally, revenues from our illustration, type and technical publishing, and Web publishing products decreased by 15%, which was primarily attributable to product lifecycle timing. Revenue from our Intelligent Documents segment increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to new releases of our Acrobat desktop products during the second quarter of fiscal 2003, as well as increased sales and marketing focus, enhanced corporate and government licensing programs, and product price increases. Overall we experienced a 37% increase in revenues from our Acrobat desktop products, which was driven by continued adoption of Acrobat desktop products in government, financial services, manufacturing, and the architecture, engineering and construction markets among others. Additionally, revenues from our Intelligent Documents segment increased due to a 79% increase in revenues from licensing of our Intelligent Documents server solution products and the professional services and support revenue associated with these products. The increase in revenue generated from the licensing of our Intelligent Documents server solution products and associated professional services and support was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Accelio during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Revenue from our OEM PostScript and Other segment remained relatively stable during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. This was due to an increase in royalty revenues from our larger OEM customers during the first half of fiscal 2003. This increase was offset by a decline in revenues in the second half of the year due to weakness in the print business and smaller OEM customers moving to clone PostScript technologies. Geographic Information Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Americas $ 770.6 20 % $ 640.2 10 % $ 583.8 Percentage of total revenues 46 % 49 % 50 % EMEA 541.5 46 % 370.2 17 % 317.6 Percentage of total revenues 33 % 29 % 27 % Asia 354.5 25 % 284.3 8 % 263.4 Percentage of total revenues 21 % 22 % 23 % Total revenues $ 1,666.6 29 % $ 1,294.7 11 % $ 1,164.8 The increase in revenues, in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, in each of our geographic segments was primarily due to the strength of our Creative Professional products. The increase in revenues, in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, in each of our geographic segments was primarily due to the strength of our Intelligent Documents desktop products. Additionally, revenues in EMEA and Asia increased approximately $50.2 million and $18.0 million, respectively, during fiscal 2004 over fiscal 2003 due to the strength of the euro and the yen. In fiscal 2003, as compared to fiscal 2002, revenues in EMEA and Asia increased approximately $50.8 million and $7.6 million, respectively, due to the strength of the euro and the yen. 41 Platform Information Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2002 Windows 73 % 74 % 71 % Macintosh 27 % 26 % 29 % We expect a growth trend towards the Windows platform over the long term due to our targeting of business users with our Intelligent Documents desktop products, where the majority of users run the Windows operating system. Inventory Information At the end of fiscal 2004 our channel inventory position was within our global inventory policy which allows up to an estimated 4.5 weeks of anticipated product supply at our distributors. With regard to our product backlog, our experience is that the actual amount of backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. For example, prior to the finalization and release of new products, we may have significant levels of orders for new product releases. At the end of fiscal 2004, we had significant levels of such backlog due to the announced, but yet to be completed and released new version of Acrobat and related products. Our backlog of unfulfilled orders at the end of fiscal 2004, other than those associated with new product releases, those pending credit review and those due to the application of our global channel inventory policy, was approximately 4% of reported fourth quarter fiscal 2004 revenue. The comparable backlog at the end of our third quarter fiscal 2004 was approximately 8% of third quarter fiscal 2004 revenue. Cost of Revenues Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Product $ 86.6 8 % $ 79.9 (18 )% $ 96.9 Percentage of total revenues 5 % 6 % 8 % Services and support 17.8 36 % 13.1 76 % 7.4 Percentage of total revenues 1 % 1 % 1 % Total cost of revenues $ 104.4 12 % $ 93.0 (11 )% $ 104.3 Product Cost of product revenue includes product packaging, third party royalties, excess and obsolete inventory, amortization related to localization costs and acquired technologies, and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. In fiscal 2002, cost of product revenue also included hosted server costs associated with the Adobe DesignTeam. Cost of product revenue increased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to licensing costs as a result of litigation settlements that occurred in fiscal 2004 and an increase in localization costs related to our product launches. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in overall material costs. Cost of product revenue decreased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to product mix. During fiscal 2003, we received higher licensing revenue versus shrink wrapped product revenue, compared to fiscal 2002, which resulted in lower material costs. Additionally, cost of product revenue for fiscal 2002 included the amortization and impairment costs associated with the Adobe DesignTeam, which was discontinued during the third quarter of fiscal 2002. 42 Services and Support Cost of services and support revenue is composed primarily of employee related costs and related costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and support revenue increased during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to costs associated with our Expert Support program that was initiated during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Additionally, cost of services and support revenue increased due to compensation and related benefits as a result of higher headcount and incentive compensation related to increases in services and support activities in fiscal 2004. Cost of services and support revenue increased during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to the acquisition of Accelio during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Operating Expenses Research and Development Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ 311.3 12 % $ 277.0 13 % $ 246.1 Percentage of total revenues 19 % 21 % 21 % Research and development expenses consist principally of compensation and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities costs, and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased 8% during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation. The remaining increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2004 was due to various individually insignificant items. Research and development expenses increased 7% during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation and increased 2% due to an accrual for major product releases. The remaining increase in research and development expenses during fiscal 2003 was due to various individually insignificant items. We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced products. We will continue to focus on long term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our desktop application and server based software products. Sales and Marketing Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ 521.1 23 % $ 423.4 11 % $ 380.4 Percentage of total revenues 31 % 33 % 33 % Sales and marketing expenses include salary and benefit expenses, sales commissions, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, customer support and order management. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. 43 Sales and marketing expenses increased 12% during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also increased 9% due to increased marketing spending related to overall marketing efforts to further increase revenues. The remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses during fiscal 2004 was due to various individually insignificant items. Sales and marketing expenses increased 9% during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation. The remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses during fiscal 2003 was due to various individually insignificant items. General and Administrative Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ 138.0 13 % $ 122.4 13 % $ 108.1 Percentage of total revenues 8 % 9 % 9 % General and administrative expenses consist of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses, and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business. General and administrative expenses increased 10% due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation. General and administrative expenses also increased 3% due to higher professional fees. General and administrative expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 due to compensation and related benefits associated with headcount growth and higher incentive compensation and 4% due to increased insurance costs. These increases were slightly offset by various individually insignificant items. Restructuring and Other Charges Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ * % $ (0.5 ) * % $ 12.1 Percentage of total revenues * % 1 % * Percentage is not meaningful. We did not incur any restructuring and other charges in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2003, we revised our estimates of certain costs associated with our restructuring program that was implemented in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. As a result, we revised the accrual related to severance and other charges and facilities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we incurred a restructuring charge of $11.1 million, which included severance and related charges and the closure of a facility. The related restructuring program eliminated 239 engineering, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions worldwide in order to realign our resources for our future business plans. This restructuring plan was completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. 44 In the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we implemented a restructuring plan to eliminate 39 redundant sales and marketing positions, held by Adobe employees worldwide, as a result of the acquisition of Accelio. The total restructuring charges, of $1.6 million, included severance and related charges associated with the reduction in force and the cost of vacating a leased facility. This restructuring plan was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2003. Additionally, during the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we revised our estimates of certain costs associated with our restructuring program that was implemented in fiscal 2001. As a result, we revised the accrual by $0.6 million related to relocation, severance and other charges. Acquired In Process Research and Development Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ $ * % $ 5.8 Percentage of total revenues * % * Percentage is not meaningful. We did not allocate any expenses to acquired in process research and development in fiscal 2004 and 2003. In April 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Accelio, a provider of Web enabled solutions that helped customers manage business processes driven by electronic forms. Based on a valuation analysis, $0.4 million was allocated to in process research and development, which was expensed as of the date of the acquisition due to the state of the development of certain products and the uncertainty of the technology. In December 2001, we acquired Fotiva, a development stage software company that created solutions to help consumers manage, store, enrich, and share digital photographs and other related personal media. Substantially all of Fotivas assets were intellectual property. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price of $5.4 million cash was allocated to in process research and development and expensed at the time of acquisition due to the in process state of the technology. Amortization and Impairment of Goodwill and Purchased and Other Intangibles Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Expenses $ $ * % $ 21.0 Percentage of total revenues 2 % * Percentage is not meaningful. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized after fiscal 2002. Instead, the goodwill associated with past and any future acquisitions is reviewed annually for impairment. For further information, see Notes 1 and 5 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we assessed our goodwill for impairment. This assessment did not result in an impairment of goodwill. Amortization and impairment of goodwill and purchased and other intangibles in fiscal 2002 included a goodwill impairment charge for the remaining book value of the Glassbook acquisition. 45 Non operating Income (Loss) Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Investment gain (loss) $ 2.5 * % $ (12.9 ) 25 % $ (17.2 ) Percentage of total revenues * % (1 )% (1 )% Interest and other income 14.3 3 % 13.9 (6 )% 14.9 Percentage of total revenues 1 % 1 % 1 % Total non operating income (loss) $ 16.8 * % $ 1.0 * % $ (2.3 ) * Percentage is not meaningful. Investment Gain (Loss) Investment gain (loss) consists of realized gains or losses from the sale of marketable equity investments, other than temporary declines in the value of marketable and non marketable equity securities, and gains and losses of Adobe Ventures. During fiscal 2004, net investment gain primarily comprised gains from the sales of our short term investments of $2.5 million. During fiscal 2003, net investment losses included net losses related to our investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $12.0 million. This loss of $12.0 million was partially offset by gains of $3.1 million from the sale of our short term investments. During fiscal 2003, investment losses also included write downs due to other than temporary declines in value of $4.0 million related to our short term investments. During fiscal 2002, investment losses consisted of net investment losses related to investments in Adobe Ventures and our cost method investments totaling $13.1 million. We also recorded $11.3 million in losses related to other than temporary write downs of our short term investments. These losses were partially offset by gains totaling $7.2 million from the sale of our short term investments. We are uncertain of future investment gains or losses as they are primarily dependent upon market conditions and the operations of the underlying investee companies. Interest and Other Income The largest component of interest and other income is interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short term fixed income investments, but also includes gains and losses on the sale of fixed income investments, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and interest expense. Interest and other income increased in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due to higher levels of cash during fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, interest decreased by $0.4 million due to the lower interest rate environment in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. We also recognized $1.7 million less in realized gains on our fixed income portfolio. Those decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.1 million in other miscellaneous income. 46 Income Tax Provision Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Provision $ 158.2 39 % $ 114.1 22 % $ 93.3 Percentage of total revenues 10 % 9 % 8 % Effective tax rate 26 % 30.0 % 32.8 % Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 and in fiscal 2003 from fiscal 2002 due to higher international profits which are taxed at a lower statutory rate. In fiscal 2002, the effective tax rate included a non deductible goodwill impairment charge of approximately 0.8%. On October 22, 2004, AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA introduced a limited time 85% dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. This deduction would result in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate on the repatriated earnings. To qualify for the deduction, the earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan established by a companys chief executive officer and approved by the companys board of directors. Additionally, certain other criteria, as outlined in the AJCA, must also be met. We may elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal 2005. We have started an evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision. However, we do not expect to be able to complete this evaluation until after Congress or the Treasury Department provides additional clarifying language on key elements of the provision. In January 2005, the Treasury Department began to issue the first of a series of clarifying guidance documents related to this provision. We expect to complete our evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision within the first two fiscal quarters of 2005. The range of possible amounts that we are considering for repatriation under this provision is between zero and $500 million. While we estimate that the related potential range of additional income tax is between zero and $50 million, this estimation is subject to change following technical correction legislation that we believe is forthcoming from Congress. The amount of additional income tax would be reduced by the part of the eligible dividend that is attributable to foreign earnings on which a deferred tax liability had been previously accrued. 47   FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE PERFORMANCE As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. If the economy worsens in any geographic areas where we do business, it would likely cause our future results to vary materially from our targets. A slower economy also may adversely affect our ability to grow. Political instability in any of the major countries in which we do business also may adversely affect our business. Delays in development or shipment of new products or major new versions of existing products could cause a decline in our revenue. Any delays or failures in developing and marketing our products, including upgrades of current products, may have a harmful impact on our results of operations. Our inability to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect continued market acceptance of our products and our ability to develop new products. A portion of our future revenue will come from new applications. Delays in product or upgrade introductions could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price. We cannot determine the ultimate effect these delays or the introduction of new products or upgrades will have on our revenue or results of operations. Introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, particularly Microsoft, could harm our competitive position and results of operations. The end markets for our software products are intensely and increasingly competitive, and are significantly affected by product introductions and market activities of industry competitors. Microsoft has an electronic form tool called InfoPath included as part of its latest professional Office product that competes with certain aspects of our Intelligent Documents product line. Given Microsofts market dominance, InfoPath, or any new competitive Microsoft product or technology that is bundled as part of its Office product or operating system, could harm our overall Intelligent Documents market opportunity. In addition, Microsoft is developing the next generation of its Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn. It is anticipated that Microsoft will add new electronic document capabilities to Longhorn, providing additional competition to our Intelligent Documents products and solutions. Also, some enterprise vendors provide intelligent document capabilities that could directly or indirectly compete with our Intelligent Documents products. Additionally, content creation/management tools that use other formats for electronic document distribution provide alternate solutions to customers, and indirectly compete with Adobes Intelligent Documents products and the use of Adobe PDF. We also are seeing an increase in competition from clone PDF products marketed by other companies. Other competitors, including Microsoft, Apple and Google, may increase their presence in the digital imaging markets. We also face competition from certain Open Source products. Additionally, many digital camera manufacturers are bundling their own or our competitors digital imaging and video software products with their digital camera products. If these competing products achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Any further consolidations among our competitors may result in stronger competitors and may therefore harm our results of operations. 48 If we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models or markets our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We are devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings to address demands in the marketplace for document generation, document process management, document collaboration, and document control and security. As a result, we are transitioning to new business models and seeking to broaden our customer base in the enterprise and government markets, requiring a considerable investment of technical, financial and sales resources, and a scaleable organization. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the enterprise and government markets, and greater sales and marketing resources. It is our intent to form strategic alliances with leading enterprise and government solutions and service providers to provide additional resources to further enable penetration of the enterprise and government markets. If we are unable to successfully enter into strategic alliances, or if they are not as productive as we anticipate, our market penetration may not proceed as rapidly as we anticipate and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our limited operating history with Adobe Creative Suite products makes it difficult to predict the revenue effect of the Adobe Creative Suite product cycle and the individual products integrated within these products. If we fail to anticipate and develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers and printers our business could be harmed. We offer our application based products primarily on Windows and Macintosh platforms and on some UNIX platforms. We generally offer our server based products, but not desktop application products, on the Linux platform as well as the Windows and UNIX platforms. To the extent that there is a slowdown of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on the Linux desktop platform before we choose and are able to offer our products on this platform, our business could be harmed. We may incur substantial costs enforcing our intellectual property rights and defending against third party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third party rights, including but not limited to patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Adverse decisions in such litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, or causing severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, although we actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, we do lose revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. 49 We rely on distributors to sell our products and any adverse change in our relationship with our distributors could result in a loss of revenue and harm our business. We distribute our application products primarily through distributors, resellers, retailers and increasingly systems integrators, ISVs and VARs (collectively referred to as "distributors"). A significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two distributors, Ingram Micro, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation. In addition, our channel program focuses our efforts on larger distributors, which has resulted in our dependence on a relatively small number of distributors licensing a large amount of our products. Our distributors also sell our competitors products, and if they favor our competitors products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. In addition, the financial health of these distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions also could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, as they could impact our sales and damage our reputation and the reputation of our products. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption in our business operations, loss of revenues or damage to our reputation. We rely on turnkey assemblers and any adverse change in our relationship with our turnkey assemblers could result in a loss of revenue and harm our business. We currently rely on six turnkey assemblers of our products, with at least two turnkeys located in each major region we serve. If any significant turnkey assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any significant turnkey assembler is interrupted or terminated for any other reason, we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products replicated by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our business. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and as a result the market price of our common stock may be volatile and our stock price could decline. As a result of a variety of factors discussed herein, our quarterly revenues and operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict. Our revenues may grow at a slower rate than experienced in previous periods and, in particular periods, may decline. Additionally, we periodically provide operating model targets for revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count and earnings per share. These targets reflect a number of assumptions, including assumptions about product pricing and demand, economic and seasonal trends, manufacturing costs and volumes, the mix of shrink wrap and licensing revenue, full and upgrade products, distribution channels and geographic markets. If one or more of these assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. 50 Due to the factors noted above, our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings or any delay in the release of any product or upgrade compared to analysts or investors expectations has caused and could cause in the future an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not learn of such shortfalls or delays until late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and greater decline in the trading price of our common stock. Finally, we participate in a highly dynamic industry. In addition to factors specific to us, changes in analysts earnings estimates for us or our industry, and factors affecting the corporate environment, our industry, or the securities markets in general, will often result in volatility of our common stock price. We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. We generate over 50% of our total revenue from sales to customers outside of the Americas. Sales to these customers subject us to a number of risks, including (i) foreign currency fluctuations, (ii) changes in government preferences for software procurement, (iii) international economic and political conditions, (iv) unexpected changes in, or impositions of, international legislative or regulatory requirements, (v) inadequate local infrastructure, (vi) delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions, (vii) transportation delays, (viii) the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases. If sales to any of our customers outside of the Americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade offs among risk, opportunity and expense. We have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We regularly review our hedging program and will make adjustments based on our judgment. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: software revenue recognition accounting for share based payments accounting for income taxes accounting for business combinations and related goodwill In particular, the FASB recently enacted SFAS 123R which will have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results and may impact the way in which we conduct our business. 51 Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Any adverse outcome from these continuous examinations may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We may suffer losses from our equity investments which could harm our business. We hold equity investments in public companies that have experienced significant declines in market value. We also have investments and may continue to make future investments in privately held companies, many of which are considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income. Future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long term declines in value of any of our investments could reduce our net income in future periods. We are uncertain about future investment gains and losses, as they are primarily dependent upon the operations of the underlying investee companies. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled personnel our business may be harmed. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where the majority of our employees are located. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. Recently enacted accounting regulations requiring the expensing of equity compensation may impair our ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. If we are unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed.  EMPLOYEE AND DIRECTOR STOCK OPTIONS Option Program Description Our stock option program is a long term retention program that is intended to attract, retain and provide incentives for talented employees, officers and directors, and to align stockholder and employee interests. We consider our stock option program critical to our operation and productivity; essentially all of our employees participate. Option vesting periods are generally three years for all of the plans within our stock option program. For further information regarding our stock option program, see Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. All stock option grants to executive officers are made after a review by and with the approval of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. All members of the Executive Compensation Committee are independent directors, as defined in the current rules applicable to issuers traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market. See the "Report of the Executive Compensation Committee" appearing in our 2005 Proxy Statement for further information concerning the policies and procedures, of the Company and the Executive Compensation Committee, regarding the use of stock options for executive officers. 52 In May 2003, a stock option exchange program was initiated that allowed eligible employees to exchange options granted with an option price greater than $40.00 per share for a lesser number of new options, according to specified exchange ratios. The program excluded executive officers and members of our Board of Directors. The cancellation date for the program was June 16, 2003. We accepted for cancellation, options to purchase approximately 7.1 million shares of common stock. On December 17, 2003, eligible employees received new options to purchase approximately 3.4 million shares of common stock, in exchange for such cancelled options, with an exercise price of $39.10. Distribution and Dilutive Effect of Options The table below provides information about stock options granted for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002 to our Chief Executive Officer and our four other most highly compensated executive officers as of December 3, 2004. This group is referred to as the Named Executive Officers. Please refer to the section below, headed "Named Executive Officer Option Grants," for the Named Executive Officers. Options granted to employees, directors and Named Executive Officers for fiscal 2002 through 2004 are summarized as follows(): 2004 2003 2002 Net grants during the period as % of outstanding shares 4 % (3 )% 3 % Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of total options granted 9 % 0 % 21 % Net grants to Named Executive Officers during the period as % of outstanding shares * % 0 % 1 % Cumulative options held by Named Executive Officers as % of total options outstanding 16 % 16 % 15 % "Net grants" equals the sum of the number of shares subject to options granted to all employees, directors and Named Executive Officers during the specified period reduced by the number of shares subject to options which were canceled or otherwise terminated during such period. Net grants during fiscal 2004 reflect the new options granted in exchange for options cancelled under our stock option exchange program in fiscal 2003. Net grants during fiscal 2003 reflect the cancellation of options under our stock option exchange program. Net grants as a percentage of outstanding shares are based on 242.2 million shares, 238.3 million shares and 232.0 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 3, 2004, November 28, 2003 and November 29, 2002 respectively. *Less than 1%. For additional information about our employee stock option plan activity, and pro forma earnings presentation as if we had accounted for our grant of employee stock options using the fair value method of accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS No. 123"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," refer to Notes 1 and 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Options granted to the Named Executive Officers as a percentage of the total options granted to all employees and directors vary from year to year. For additional information about the compensation of our executive officers and stock option grants to our Named Executive Officers, refer to our 2005 Proxy Statement we will deliver to our stockholders in connection with our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 28, 2005. 53 General Option Information The following table sets forth the summary of option activity under our stock option program for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002: Outstanding Options Options Available for Grant Number of Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price November 30, 2001 12,818,238 54,284,317 $ 36.66 Granted (11,973,680 ) 11,973,680 28.77 Exercised (3,688,534 ) 15.99 Canceled 4,722,413 (4,722,413 ) 45.20 November 29, 2002 5,566,971 57,847,050 35.64 Granted (1,994,130 ) 1,994,130 33.12 Exercised (7,978,054 ) 23.81 Canceled 9,388,535 (9,393,473 ) 58.00 Expired (8,006 ) November 28, 2003 12,953,370 42,469,653 32.80 Granted (10,379,755 ) 10,379,755 42.13 Exercised (13,293,864 ) 27.10 Canceled 1,289,228 (1,289,228 ) 40.91 Expired (9,259 ) Increased authorization 4,500,000 December 3, 2004 8,353,584 38,266,316 $ 37.04 The following table sets forth a comparison, as of December 3, 2004, of the number of shares subject to our options whose exercise prices were at or below the closing price of our common stock on December 3, 2004 ("In the Money" options) to the number of shares subject to options whose exercise prices were greater than the closing price of our common stock on such date ("Out of the Money" options): Exercisable Unexercisable Total Percentage of Total Options Outstanding In the Money(*) 19,358,902 15,829,275 35,188,177 92 % Out of the Money(*) 3,077,805 334 3,078,139 8 % Total Options Outstanding 22,436,707 15,829,609 38,266,316 100 % (*)The closing price of our common stock was $62.96 on December 3, 2004, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. 54 Named Executive Officer Option Grants The following table sets forth information regarding stock options granted during fiscal 2004, to our Named Executive Officers. All options were granted with an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Potential realizable values are net of exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent hypothetical gains that could be achieved for the options if exercised at the end of the option term of seven years. The assumed 5% and 10% rates of stock price appreciation are provided for purposes of illustration only and do not represent our estimate or projection of the future price of our common stock. Potential Realizable Value at Assumed Annual Rates of Stock Price Appreciation for Option Term Number of Securities Underlying Options Granted % of Total Options Granted to Employees(1) Year to Date Name Exercise Price Expiration Date 5% 10% (In actual dollars) Bruce R. Chizen 450,000 4 % $ 43.55 5/19/2011 $ 7,978,151 $ 18,592,483 Shantanu Narayen 150,000 1 43.55 5/19/2011 2,659,384 6,197,494 Murray J. Demo 125,000 1 43.55 5/19/2011 2,216,153 5,164,579 Jim Stephens 100,000 1 43.55 5/19/2011 1,772,922 4,131,663 James Heeger 100,000 1 43.55 5/19/2011 1,772,922 4,131,663 (1)Based on approximately 10.4 million shares subject to options granted to employees under our option plans during fiscal 2004. Stock Option Exercises and Option Holdings The following table shows aggregated stock options exercised by the Named Executive Officers in fiscal 2004, including the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. In addition, the number of shares covered by both exercisable and non exercisable stock options, as of December 3, 2004, is shown. Also reported are the values for "In the Money" options. The dollar amounts shown in the "In the Money" column represent the positive spread between the exercise price of any such existing stock options and closing price as of December 3, 2004 of our common stock. Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Value of Unexercised In the Money Options(2) Number of Shares Acquired Upon Exercise Name Value Realized Upon Exercise(1) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Bruce R. Chizen 600,000 $ 15,780,095 1,784,489 875,002 $ 24,445,523 $ 24,242,823 Shantanu Narayen 450,000 11,180,935 796,550 400,000 10,090,543 12,034,000 Murray J. Demo 348,954 9,341,713 658,711 375,002 3,903,499 11,548,823 Jim Stephens 369,700 8,097,179 327,800 250,002 1,537,103 7,414,573 James Heeger 100,000 2,012,514 268,749 281,251 7,166,351 8,177,649 (1)The "value realized" represents the total value of gains on the date of exercise based on actual sale prices or on the closing price that day if the shares were not sold that day, in each case less the exercise price of the stock options. See related Section 16 filings for detailed information on dispositions of shares. (2)Option values are based on $62.96, the closing price of our common stock on December 3, 2004, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. 55  Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information about our common stock that may be issued under our existing equity compensation plans as of December 3, 2004: Plan Category Number of Securities to Be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options (a) Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders 38,266,316 $ 37.04 23,766,048 * *Includes 2.8 million shares and 12.7 million shares, respectively, which are reserved for issuance under the 1994 Performance and Restricted Stock Plan and the 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 3, 2004.  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Fiscal 2004 % Change 2004 to 2003 Fiscal 2003 % Change 2003 to 2002 Fiscal 2002 Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments $ 1,313.2 20 % $ 1,096.5 78 % $ 617.7 Working capital 1,099.6 23 % 892.5 104 % 436.9 Stockholders equity $ 1,423.5 29 % $ 1,100.8 63 % $ 674.3 Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue. The primary uses of cash are payroll (salaries, bonuses, and benefits), general operating expenses (marketing, travel, office rent) and cost of product revenue. Another source of cash is proceeds from the exercise of employee options and another use of cash is our stock repurchase program, which is detailed below. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2004 of $683.7 million, primarily comprised net income, net of non cash related expenses. Working capital sources of cash were increases in accrued expenses, deferred revenue and a decrease in accounts receivable. Accrued expenses increased primarily due to compensation costs. Deferred revenue increased primarily due to increased maintenance and support obligations. Our accounts receivable decreased due to increased levels of cash collections. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables ("DSO") decreased from 37 days at November 28, 2003 to 30 days at December 3, 2004. Working capital uses of cash included a decrease in income taxes payable due to tax payments made for both agreed and disputed tax assessments. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2003 of $433.1 million primarily comprised net income, net of non cash related expenses, and increases in accrued expenses, income taxes payable and deferred revenue. Accrued expenses increased primarily due to incentive compensation related costs, sales and marketing programs, legal fees and accruals for major product releases. Income taxes payable increased due to an increase in taxable income. Deferred revenue increased primarily due to increased maintenance obligations. These increases were partially offset by an increase in receivables at the end of the year and a decrease in accrued restructuring charges. The increase in receivables was primarily due to the increase in revenues during the year and the launch of our new Creative Suites and related CS products at the end of the year. The decrease in accrued restructuring is primarily due to the payments of severance and facility costs. During fiscal 2002, cash provided by operating activities of $329.3 million was primarily due to net income, net of non cash related expenses, an increase in income taxes payable and deferred revenue 56 and a decrease in accounts receivable. Income taxes payable increased due to an increase in taxable income. Deferred revenue increased primarily due to increased maintenance obligations. The decrease in trade receivables was primarily due to our improved collections during fiscal 2002. These increases in cash were partially offset by a decrease in accrued restructuring charges and accrued expenses. Accrued restructuring charges decreased primarily due to the payment of severance and related charges. Accrued expenses decreased primarily due to lower incentive compensation related costs. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2004 of $276.6 million decreased from net cash used in fiscal 2003 of $548.4 million due primarily to lower net purchases of short term investments as compared to the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2003 increased from cash used in fiscal 2002 of $142.3 million, primarily due to net purchases of short term investments. The increase in purchases of short term investments is attributable to an increase in cash from operations and proceeds from the re issuance of treasury stock during fiscal 2003. Cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2004 of $224.5 million increased from the cash provided in fiscal 2003 of $117.0 million primarily due to repurchases of stock. Cash used for stock repurchases during fiscal 2004 increased from fiscal 2003 due to a higher average cost per share, a higher number of shares being repurchased, and remaining prepayments related to stock repurchase agreements. The cost of the repurchases was partially offset by proceeds received from employees exercising their stock options. The increase in proceeds received is due to a higher number of options being exercised as well as higher option exercise prices. Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2003 increased from cash used in fiscal 2002 of $223.3 million as more employees exercised their stock options during fiscal 2003 due to higher stock prices. We have paid cash dividends on our common stock each quarter since the second quarter of 1988. Adobes Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.0125 per common share for each of the four quarters in fiscal 2002 through 2004. Under the terms of our lease agreements for our San Jose headquarters, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless an event of default occurs. The declaration of future dividends, whether in cash or in kind, is within the discretion of Adobes Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our results of operations and financial condition, and other factors. We expect to continue our investing activities, including investments in short term and long term investments and purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase programs and strategically acquire software companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Adobe uses highly regarded investment management firms to manage most of our invested cash. External investment firms actively managed 90% of Adobes invested balances during the year. The fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in municipal bonds within the U.S. and in highly rated corporate and sovereign obligations outside of the U.S. The balance of the fixed income portfolio is managed internally and invested primarily in money market funds for working capital purposes. All investments are made according to guidelines and within compliance of policies approved by the Board of Directors. Our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances may decline during fiscal 2005 in the event of weakening of the economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances together with our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. Cash from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in the section "Factors That May Affect Future Performance." Also, while we currently have no committed lines of credit, we 57 believe that our banking relationships and good credit should afford us the opportunity to raise sufficient debt in the bank or public market, if required. Stock Repurchase Program I On going Dilution Coverage To facilitate our stock repurchase program designed to minimize dilution from stock issuance primarily from employee stock plans, we repurchase shares in the open market and from time to time enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. Historically we have sold put warrants and purchased call options. Authorization to repurchase shares to cover on going dilution is not subject to expiration. However, this repurchase program is limited to covering net dilution from stock issuances and is subject to business conditions and cash flow requirements as determined by our Board of Directors from time to time. Refer to Part II, Item 5(c) in this filing for share repurchases during the quarter ended December 3, 2004. During fiscal 2004, we entered into several stock purchase agreements with large financial institutions. Under these agreements, we provided the financial institutions with up front payments totaling $350.0 million. The financial institutions agreed to deliver to us, at certain intervals during the contract term, a certain number of our shares based on the volume weighted average price during such intervals less a specified discount. Upon payment, the $350.0 million was classified as treasury stock on our balance sheet. These contracts will expire on or before May 17, 2005. On December 20, 2004, we entered into several additional stock purchase agreements with large financial institutions. Under these agreements, we provided the financial institutions with up front payments totaling $100.0 million. The financial institutions agreed to deliver to us, at certain intervals during the contract term, a certain number of our shares based on the volume weighted average price during such intervals less a specified discount. Upon payment, the $100.0 million was classified as treasury stock on our balance sheet. These contracts will expire on or before June 21, 2005. Stock Repurchase Program II Additional Authorization above Dilution Coverage In March 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a program to purchase up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a two year period, subject to certain business and cash flow requirements. The program expired on March 2, 2003. On September 25, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized a program to purchase up to an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a three year period, subject to certain business and cash flow requirements. The authorization for this program will expire in September 2005. The tables below represent our authorized stock repurchase plans and summary of stock repurchases as of December 3, 2004.  Authorized Stock Repurchase Plans Board Approval Date Expiration Date Authorized Shares Repurchases To Date Authorization Expired Remaining Authorization December 1997 N/A Ongoing dilution 58.3 N/A 28.3 * March 2001 March 2003 5.0 2.0 3.0 September 2002 September 2005 5.0 5.0 *The remaining authorization for the ongoing stock repurchase plan is determined by subtracting repurchases from all stock issuances, net of any canceled shares, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 1998. 58  Summary of Stock Repurchases for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands, except average amounts) Board Approval Date Repurchases Under the Plan 2004 Average 2003 Average 2002 Average December 1997 From employees(1) 5 $ 51.30 18 $ 34.99 83 $ 35.55 Open market 6,207 41.63 1,185 32.96 Option exercises(2) 1,584 28.47 8,517 29.60 Structured repurchases(3) 4,766 46.65 March 2001 Open market 1,899 18.40 Option exercises(2) 115 28.58 Total shares 10,978 $ 43.82 2,787 $ 30.42 10,614 $ 27.63 Total cost $ 481,075 $ 84,777 $ 293,241 (1)The repurchases from employees represent shares canceled when surrendered in lieu of cash payments for the option exercise price or withholding taxes due. (2)These are exercises of outstanding put and call options. (3)These are stock repurchase agreements executed with large financial institutions. See "Stock Repurchase Program I On going Dilution Coverage" above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of December 3, 2004, consist of obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. We expect to fulfill all of the following commitments from our working capital. Lease Commitments The two lease agreements discussed in Note 15 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are subject to standard financial covenants. As of December 3, 2004 we were in compliance with all of our financial covenants. We expect to remain within compliance in the next 12 months. We are comfortable with these limitations and believe they will not impact our credit or cash in the coming year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. See Note 15 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our lease commitments. The following table summarizes our contractual commitments as of December 3, 2004: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Over 5 years Non cancelable operating leases, net of sublease income $ 123.1 $ 28.5 $ 40.2 $ 30.0 $ 24.4 Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. 59 We have commitments to make certain milestone and or retention payments typically entered into in conjunction with various acquisitions, for which we have made accruals in our consolidated financial statements. In connection with certain acquisitions and purchases of technology assets during fiscal 2003 and 2004, we entered into employee retention agreements and are required to make payments upon satisfaction of certain conditions in the agreements. These costs are being amortized over the retention period to compensation expense. As of December 3, 2004, we have $1.6 million remaining to be paid under our retention agreements. As permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officers or directors lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that reduces our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. As part of our limited partnership interests in Adobe Ventures, we have provided a general indemnification to Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and sole general partner of Adobe Ventures, for certain events or occurrences while Granite Ventures is, or was serving, at our request in such capacity provided that Granite Ventures acts in good faith on behalf of the partnerships. We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments that could potentially result from any hypothetical future claim, but believe the risk of having to make any payments under this general indemnification to be remote. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded under our cost of products revenue on our consolidated statements of income, was approximately $15.9 million, $14.5 million and $14.4 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other Information Consistent with Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we are responsible for listing the audit and non audit services pre approved in the fourth quarter of 2004 by our Audit Committee to be performed by KPMG LLP, our external auditor. Each of the permitted non audit services has been pre approved by the Audit Committee or the Audit Committees Chairman pursuant to delegated authority by the Audit Committee, other than de minimus non audit services for which the pre approval requirements are waived in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Audit Committee pre approved the following non audit services anticipated to be performed by KPMG LLP: 1) foreign financial statement review and 2) tax audit and compliance services.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS All market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for non trading purposes. Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments We transact business in foreign countries, in U.S. dollars and in various foreign currencies. In Europe and Japan, transactions that are denominated in euro or yen subject us to exposure from 60 movements in foreign currency exchange rates. This exposure is primarily related to yen denominated product and support revenue in Japan and euro denominated product and support revenue in certain European countries. In fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, our exposures were 24.1 billion yen, 21.3 billion yen and 20.5 billion yen, respectively. In fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, our exposures were 375.4 million euros, 274.0 million euros and 288.5 million euros, respectively. In addition we also have long term investment exposures consisting of the capitalization and retained earnings in our non USD functional foreign subsidiaries. For the fiscal years ending December 3, 2004 and November 28, 2003 this long term investment exposure totaled a notional equivalent of $40.1 million and $30.8 million, respectively. At this time we do not hedge these long term investment exposures. Our Japanese operating expenses are in yen, and our European operating expenses are primarily in euro, which mitigates a portion of the exposure related to yen and euro denominated product revenue. In addition, we hedge firmly committed transactions using forward contracts. These contracts do subject us to risk of accounting gains and losses; however, the gains and losses on these contracts largely offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. We also hedge a percentage of forecasted international revenue with forward and purchased option contracts. Our revenue hedging policy is designed to reduce the negative impact on our forecasted revenue due to foreign currency exchange rate movements. At December 3, 2004, total outstanding contracts included the notional equivalent of $110.9 million in foreign currency forward exchange contracts and purchased put option contracts with a notional value of $221.6 million. As of December 3, 2004, all contracts were set to expire at various times through June 2005. The bank counterparties in these contracts expose us to credit related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk we only contract with counterparties with specific minimum rating requirements. In addition, our hedging policy establishes maximum limits for each counterparty. Economic Hedging Hedges of Forecasted Transactions We use option and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain operational ("cash flow") exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, may have maturities between one and twelve months. Such cash flow exposures result from portions of our forecasted revenues denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Japanese yen and the euro. We enter into these foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecasted product licensing revenue in the normal course of business, and accordingly, they are not speculative in nature. We record changes in the intrinsic value of these cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until the forecasted transaction occurs. When the forecasted transaction occurs, we reclassify the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income at that time. For the fiscal year ended December 3, 2004, there were no such net gains or losses recognized in other income relating to hedges of forecasted transactions that did not occur. The critical terms of the cash flow hedging instruments are the same as the underlying forecasted transactions. The changes in fair value of the derivatives are intended to offset changes in the expected cash flows from the forecasted transactions. We record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in other income (loss) on the consolidated statement of income. The time value of purchased derivative instruments is deemed to be ineffective and is recorded in other income (loss) over the life of the contract. See also Note 16 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 61 Balance Sheet Hedging Hedging of Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities We hedge our net recognized foreign currency assets and liabilities with forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative instruments hedge assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recorded as other income (loss). These derivative instruments do not subject us to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to offset gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. At December 3, 2004, the outstanding balance sheet hedging derivatives had maturities of 90 days or less. A sensitivity analysis was performed on all of our foreign exchange derivatives as of December 3, 2004. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value resulting from a 10% and 15% shift in the value of exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. For option contracts, the Black Scholes equation model was used. For forward contracts, duration modeling was used where hypothetical changes are made to the spot rates of the currency. A 10% and 15% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar (and a corresponding decrease in the value of the hedged foreign currency asset) would lead to an increase in the fair value of our financial hedging instruments by $14.8 million and $27.7 million, respectively. Conversely, a 10% and 15% decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar would result in a decrease in the fair value of these financial instruments by $9.4 million and $14.1 million, respectively. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. As a general rule, we do not use financial instruments to hedge local currency denominated operating expenses in countries where a natural hedge exists. For example, in many countries revenue from the local currency product licenses substantially offsets the local currency denominated operating expenses. We assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency exposures, primarily related to operating expenses, on an ongoing basis. We regularly review our hedging program and may as part of this review determine at any time to change our hedging program. See also Note 16 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity Investments We are exposed to equity price risk on our portfolio of marketable equity securities. As of December 3, 2004, our total equity holdings in publicly traded companies were valued at $2.8 million compared to $7.2 million at November 28, 2003, a decrease of 61%. The decrease was due to sales of $2.4 million and a $2.0 million decrease in market value adjustment. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the fair values of these securities could adversely change in the near term. We have a policy in place to review our equity holdings on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value. Our policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each companys cash position, earnings/revenue outlook, stock price performance over the past six months, liquidity and management/ownership. If we believe that an other than temporary decline in value exists in one of our marketable equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to the market value and record the related write down in our consolidated statements of income. 62 The following table represents the potential decrease in fair values of our marketable equity securities that are sensitive to changes in the stock market. Fair value deteriorations of 50%, 35%, and 15% were selected based on the probability of their occurrence. 50% 35% 15% Marketable equity securities $ (1.4 ) $ (1.0 ) $ (0.4 ) Fixed Income Investments At December 3, 2004, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those classified as cash equivalents, of $1,272.8 million compared to $1,069.0 million at November 28, 2003, an increase of 19%. These securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of our fixed income investments. The table below separates the remaining maturities of our fixed income securities into segments to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. Less than one year $ 773.8 One year to two years 315.2 Greater than two years 183.8 Total $ 1,272.8 A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of December 3, 2004. This sensitivity analysis was based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, 100, or 150 basis points over six month and twelve month time horizons. The following table represents the potential decrease to the value of our fixed income securities given a negative shift in the yield curve used in our sensitivity analysis. 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 6 month horizon $ (2.5 ) $ (6.8 ) $ (10.1 ) 12 month horizon $ (1.9 ) $ (4.0 ) $ (5.8 ) We limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk by establishing and monitoring clear policies and guidelines for our fixed income portfolios. At the present time, the maximum weighted average duration of all portfolios is limited to 2.2 years. The guidelines also establish credit quality standards, limits on exposure to any one security issue, limits on exposure to any one issuer and limits on exposure to the type of instrument. Due to limited duration and credit risk criteria established in our guidelines we do not expect the exposure to interest rate risk and credit risk to be material. Privately Held Investments We have direct investments, as well as indirect investments through Adobe Ventures, in several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the start up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky, as the technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, and we could lose a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. It is our policy to review privately held investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying amount and economic viability of these companies. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the companies cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational performance, management/ownership changes and competition. The evaluation process is based on 63 information that we request from these privately held companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. See also Note 1 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 64   
