FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20020919140852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 13, 2002 McDONALD'S CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter) Delaware 1-5231 36-2361282 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) One McDonald's Plaza Oak Brook, Illinois 60523 (630) 623-3000 (Address and Phone Number of Principal Executive Offices)
Item 5. Other Events - --------------------- On September 13, 2002, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its comprehensive U.S. business plan was overwhelmingly approved by McDonald's Owner/Operators. The press release is filed hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. On September 17, 2002, McDonald's Corporation issued a press release announcing the Company's third quarter 2002 update. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- (c) Exhibit: (99.1) Press Release dated September 13, 2002 - Comprehensive U.S. Business Plan Overwhelmingly Approved by McDonald's Owner/Operators (99.2) Press Release dated September 17, 2002 - McDonald's Third Quarter 2002 Update SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. McDONALD'S CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: September 19, 2002 By: /s/ Matthew H. Paull --------------------------------- Matthew H. Paull Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2
Exhibit Index Exhibit No. - ---------- 99.1 News Release of McDonald's Corporation issued September 13, 2002: Comprehensive U.S. Business Plan Overwhelmingly Approved by McDonald's Owner/Operators 99.2 News Release of McDonald's Corporation issued September 17, 2002: McDonald's Third Quarter 2002 Update 3

EXHIBIT 99.1 For Immediate Release: For More Information Contact: - ---------------------- ----------------------------- 09/13/02 Media: Walt Riker, 630/623-7318 Mike Donahue, 630/623-7833 Investors: Mary Healy, 630/623-6429 Comprehensive U.S. Business Plan Overwhelmingly Approved -------------------------------------------------------- by McDonald's Owner/Operators ----------------------------- National Value, Advertising & Restaurant Enhancements Underway for Customers OAK BROOK, IL -- McDonald's U.S. Owner/Operators have overwhelmingly approved a comprehensive U.S. business plan featuring menu value, national advertising, and restaurant enhancements, all with the customer in mind. The plan, which was endorsed by owner/operator leadership at a meeting last week in Las Vegas, won final approval yesterday with a 98% yes vote, following balloting this week by McDonald's independent franchisees. Jack Greenberg, Chairman and CEO of McDonald's Corporation, applauded the owner/operators, saying, "McDonald's is tough to beat when we marshal our significant strengths. This is an aggressive long-term package backed by the full power of our brand, our national advertising dollars and a family of owner/operators and suppliers that is the best in the business. Our value campaign, service and other initiatives will be heard loud and clear by customers." McDonald's first national value strategy in seven years features national advertising of two premium sandwiches - the Big N' Tasty and McChicken - for $1.00 each starting October 4th, followed by national advertising of an eight-item "Dollar Menu" on November 1st. The new nationally advertised Dollar Menu consists of eight core items available at $1.00: . Big N' Tasty - a great-tasting lettuce and tomato hamburger sandwich . McChicken - a gently-seasoned fried chicken sandwich . McValue fries . Soft drink . Side salad . Snack-size Fruit n' Yogurt Parfait, a combination of low-fat, custard-style yogurt with blueberries and strawberries . Sundae - creamy soft serve with hot fudge or other toppings like caramel or strawberry . Two pies - baked apple with cinnamon "We believe that customers will appreciate and notice that we are not only listening, we are also delivering," said Mike Roberts, President of McDonald's USA. "From menu value to restaurant enhancements and more choice than ever before, the new comprehensive U.S. action plan has the customer in mind from start to finish, backed by a truly aligned McDonald's System."
The U.S. plan also includes investments for restaurant improvements that enhance the customer experience. These investments will be used for mutually agreed upon restaurant projects including new signage, improved drive-thrus, or restaurant remodeling or rebuilding. Project decisions will be made on an individual restaurant basis based on existing customer service levels and expected returns on investment to owner/operators and the company. The comprehensive U.S. plan also includes initiatives to improve the customer experience, including improvements to the team service system, training and aggressive menu introductions. "We believe this U.S. plan represents our best opportunity to provide customers with what they want and deserve. And, of course, satisfying customers helps us grow our business," added Roberts. McDonald's is the world's leading foodservice retailer, with more than 30,000 local restaurants serving nearly 46 million people each day in 121 countries. Approximately 80 percent of all McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent franchisees. Forward-looking Statements Certain forward-looking statements are included in this release. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan," and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this release. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying our forward-looking statements: the effectiveness of operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts, as well as changes in: global and local business and economic conditions; currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets; competition; consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; legislation and governmental regulation; and accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ###

EXHIBIT 99.2 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Investor Release - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 09/17/02 Investors: Mary Healy, 630-623-6429 Media: Anna Rozenich, 630-623-7316 McDONALD'S THIRD QUARTER 2002 UPDATE OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that it is lowering its 2002 earnings expectations for the full year, primarily due to lower than expected sales in the U.S. and Europe in the third quarter and a more cautious outlook on the fourth quarter. The Company currently expects 2002 earnings per share to be $1.43 or better, excluding charges in the first quarter(1). Including the charges, the Company expects annual earnings per share to be $1.31 or better, compared with $1.25(2) in 2001. The Company expects third quarter 2002 earnings per share of $.38 to $.39, compared with $.42 last year including special items and $.38 excluding special items(3). These expectations reflect a foreign currency translation benefit of one to two cents for the third quarter, and one to three cents for the year. McDonald's also reported that Systemwide sales for the first two months of third quarter 2002 were $7.5 billion, up 3 percent compared with the same period in 2001. Jack Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, noted, "The U.S. marketplace continues to be extremely competitive and customers have many choices. This is why we have recently announced an acceleration of our plans to give customers even better value, service, menu choice and experience. In addition, the U.S. system will feature a more focused, consistent national advertising message. These actions are designed to move our U.S. business to a higher level, strengthen our competitive position and increase restaurant sales and profits for the company and our franchisees. However, it will take time before we see the full benefit of these initiatives in our earnings. We will launch our national value advertising in October as we continue to enhance restaurant-level training and service systems. "In connection with this plan, beginning in 2003, we will further enhance customers' experience through targeted investments in sales building initiatives over the next 18 to 24 months. As part of this plan, we expect to invest $300 million to $400 million in existing U.S. franchised restaurants in 2003. The funding decisions will be made on an individual restaurant basis for those restaurants meeting specified standards and will be based on return on investment criteria. To fund the additional capital expenditures related to U.S. initiatives, we expect to moderate share repurchases to approximately $500 million in 2003 as well as reduce global new restaurant openings." Greenberg added, "In Europe, sales were weaker than expected, particularly in Germany where the economy continues to contract and in the U.K, where retail sales have slowed. In addition, our marketing messages in these countries did not resonate as well with consumers as we had hoped. Therefore, we are making adjustments and are optimistic that sales in these countries will improve in the fourth quarter as our aggressive marketing plans feature new tastes and value. France continued to perform well in the first two months of the quarter." McDonald's also reported the following sales results and expectations. Through year-to-date August, Systemwide sales were $27.7 billion, up 2 percent in constant currencies(4) over the same period last year. Systemwide sales are expected to increase in low-single digits for the year in constant currencies. U.S. sales were relatively flat for the first two months of the third quarter and grew one percent through year-to-date August compared with the same periods last year. For the year, U.S. sales and operating income are expected to increase in low-single digits (excluding special charges of $181.0 million in 2001(5)). In constant currencies, European sales increased 4 percent for the first two months of the third quarter and 7 percent through year-to-date August compared with the same periods last year. Europe's
constant currency sales and operating income are expected to increase in mid-single digits for the year (excluding special charges of $45.8 million in 2001(6)). Constant currency sales in Asia/Pacific/Middle East/Africa (APMEA) declined 2 percent for the first two months of the third quarter and 3 percent through year-to-date August. Australia continues to perform well and we have seen improvement in Japan as a result of their value initiative. McDonald's is the world's leading food service retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in 121 countries serving 46 million customers each day. Certain forward-looking statements are included in this release. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this release. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying our forward-looking statements: the effectiveness of operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts, as well as changes in: global and local business and economic conditions; currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets; competition; consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; legislation and governmental regulation; and accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. (1) The charges excluded from the guidance of $1.43 or better include a first quarter 2002 non-cash charge of $43 million, pre and after tax ($.04 per share), primarily related to the impairment of assets in Latin America and the closing of underperforming restaurants in Turkey, as a result of continued economic weakness. This guidance also excludes a first quarter 2002 non-cash charge of $99 million after tax ($.08 per share) for the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". (2) Includes $253 million of net pretax expense ($143 million after tax or $.11 per share) consisting primarily of special charges related to the U.S. business reorganization and other global change initiatives and the closing of 163 underperforming restaurants in international markets, partly offset by a gain on the initial public offering of McDonald's Japan. (3) Third quarter 2001 results included a $137 million after-tax gain related to the initial public offering of McDonald's Japan and after-tax charges of $84 million, related to the closing of 154 underperforming restaurants in international markets and the write-off of technology costs. These charges and gain totaled $.04 per share. (4) Information in constant currencies excludes the effect of foreign currency translation on reported results, except for hyperinflationary economies, whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Constant currency results are calculated by translating the current year results at prior year monthly average exchange rates. (5) U.S. results in fourth quarter 2001 included $181.0 million in special charges related to the U.S. business reorganization and costs incurred in connection with the theft of promotional game pieces and related termination of a supplier. (6) Europe's results in third and fourth quarters of 2001 included $45.8 million in special charges related to the closing of underperforming restaurants and global change initiatives. # # #


