FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040722081616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 22, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's second quarter 2004 results. The press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. The information furnished under this Item, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004. The Company reported diluted earnings per share of $0.47, up 27% for the quarter and $0.87, up 32% for the six months driven by strong comparable sales across all business segments. The Company posted double-digit growth in Systemwide sales, revenues, operating income and earnings per share for both the quarter and six months, and reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
President and Chief Executive Officer Charlie Bell said, "Our Plan to Win, with its focus on customers, continues to deliver results worldwide. This quarter's performance reflects higher sales, more customer visits and enhanced profitability. We're increasing McDonald's relevance and keeping our brand in demand with faster service, better tasting and more contemporary food and beverage offerings, cleaner, more modern restaurants, attractive everyday value, and hip, fresh marketing.
 
"As encouraged as we are by current performance, we still have work to do. We will remain focused on operational excellence, leadership marketing, innovation and financial discipline. We'll continue to share successful initiatives throughout the System such as our appealing Salads Plus menu, eye-catching restaurant reimaging concepts, and branded affordability programs.
 
"We'll also continue to manage costs and effectively deploy our significant and growing cash flow. This year, we'll invest
$1.5 billion to $1.6 billion in our business, reduce debt by $500 million to $700 million, and return more than $1 billion of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
 
"In the U.S., second quarter comparable sales performance remained strong. U.S. Company-operated margins for the quarter reached 19.5%, a level not achieved since 1994, despite a challenging commodity cost environment.
 
"Europe's momentum continued to build, with the segment reporting its strongest comparable sales growth rate in more than two years. We are encouraged by this progress and confident that our service, food, value and marketing initiatives will generate steady improvements over the long term.
 
"We've also seen renewed strength in Asia/Pacific with continued robust trends in Australia, a strong rebound in China, and encouraging signs of improvement in Japan."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speaks only as of July 22, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our annual and quarterly reports.
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
McDonald's Corporation will host a live investor webcast at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on July 22, 2004. For access, go to . An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004.
 
The Company plans to release July 2004 sales information on Monday, August 9.
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
 
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
 
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Revenues
 
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
 
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter and six months. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES PERCENT INCREASE / (DECREASE)
 
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
Operating Margins
 
COMPANY-OPERATED AND FRANCHISED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales:
 
COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
 
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTEREST, NONOPERATING EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
The information provided below is as of July 2004.
 
In 2004, McDonald's expects to open about 500 traditional McDonald's restaurants and 250 satellite restaurants and close about 200 traditional restaurants and 150 satellite restaurants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESTAURANT INFORMATION
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
At June 30, 2003: U.S. 1,219; Germany 71; Japan 1,845; Canada 340.
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Certain forward-looking statements are included in this exhibit. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this exhibit. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying our forward-looking statements: effectiveness of operating initiatives; success in advertising and promotional efforts; changes in global and local business and economic conditions, including their impact on consumer confidence; fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; competition, including pricing and marketing initiatives and new product offerings by the Company's competitors; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the Company's product offerings; spending patterns and demographic trends; availability of qualified restaurant personnel; severe weather conditions; existence of positive or negative publicity regarding the Company or its industry generally; effects of legal claims; cost and deployment of capital; changes in future effective tax rates; changes in governmental regulations; and changes in applicable accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not all-inclusive.
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 


