FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040308110439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 5, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's February 2004 sales. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that February 2004 Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 22.6%, or 14.8% in constant currencies, compared with February 2003. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 13.9%. February 2004 performance benefited from an extra day due to leap year.
 
Jim Cantalupo, McDonald's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Led by the continuing momentum in the U.S. and Europe, Systemwide comparable sales increased for the tenth consecutive month. While we know that a combination of unique factors contributed to February's impressive results, we also know that our Plan to Win is positively impacting performance worldwide. Our actions to improve the customer experience with better tasting food, improved service, relevant marketing and enhanced menu variety are clearly working. Our progress to date has been significant, yet we still have more to do to create consistently relevant and satisfying customer experiences. We will remain focused and disciplined as we pursue our long-term objective of sustainable growth."
 
February Comparable Sales
 
February Systemwide Sales
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Related Communications
 
McDonald's tentatively plans to release March sales on April 13, 2004.
 
More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve about 47 million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our newly designed website at to learn more about the Company.
www.mcdonalds.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of March 5, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its 10-K and 10-Q reports.
 
 


