FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20041124100253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
    (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
As reported in Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K, Charlie Bell stepped down as President and Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's Corporation. In that connection, the Company has agreed to make the corporate jet available at no expense to Mr. Bell and his family for one trip.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Charlie Bell stepped down as President and Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's Corporation on November 22, 2004 to focus on his battle with cancer. Mr. Bell remains as a Director. Effective on that date, the Board of Directors named James Skinner, currently Vice Chairman of the Company, as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors. Additionally, the Board of Directors appointed Michael Roberts, previously Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's USA, as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and a member of the Board of Directors. The Company's press release announcing these changes is filed as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein.
Mr. Skinner has been with the Company for 33 years, beginning as a restaurant manager trainee. During his tenure, he has held numerous leadership positions within the Company. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Skinner was President of McDonald's Europe. He then became President and Chief Operating Officer of McDonald's Europe/Asia/Pacific and Middle East. Prior to becoming Vice Chairman, Mr. Skinner served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the McDonald's Restaurant Group, with operating responsibility for McDonald's restaurants worldwide.
Prior to becoming President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Roberts was Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's USA. Mr. Roberts previously served as President of McDonald's USA, and before that, President, West Division for McDonald's USA. Mr. Roberts began his McDonald's career as a regional purchasing manager in 1977.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
McDonald's News Advisory issued November 22, 2004: Charlie Bell Steps Down; Board Elects Jim Skinner CEO and Mike Roberts President & COO
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
Oak Brook, Il. -- Andrew J. McKenna, Chairman of the Board of Directors of McDonald's Corporation, issued the following statement today after a meeting of the Board:
 
"Charlie Bell has informed us of his decision to step down immediately from his role as President and Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's to devote all of his time and energy to his courageous battle against cancer. Charlie is a remarkable leader and well loved by the McDonald's family, and we fully understand and respect his decision.
 
"On his behalf, he has asked me to thank everyone who is reaching out to him with thoughts and prayers. Your support and empathy are sources of inspiration and courage to Charlie, and to all of us at McDonald's.
 
"As a result of Charlie's decision, our Board met today to review succession plans. I am pleased to announce that Jim Skinner, currently Vice Chairman, has been elected Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors. Additionally, the Board has elected Mike Roberts, currently CEO of McDonald's USA, to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer and a member of the Board of Directors. Roberts will report to CEO Skinner, and these management changes are effective immediately.
 
"In Jim Skinner, McDonald's has an outstanding leader who will continue the strategic focus established by Jim Cantalupo and Charlie Bell. In the course of his 33-year career at McDonald's, he has led every restaurant geography of the company -- and like Charlie before him, his McDonald's roots are in the details and discipline of restaurant operations and customer service.
 
"Mike Roberts has led a remarkable resurgence as CEO of McDonald's USA, with the U.S. on its way to a second consecutive year of double-digit operating income growth. This has energized the entire McDonald's system. In his new role, Mike will bring his energy and experienced leadership to McDonald's restaurant operations throughout the world.
 
"Together, Jim Skinner and Mike Roberts will provide the seasoned and innovative leadership McDonald's needs to continue our business momentum going forward. In this effort, they will benefit from our unparalleled depth of management talent in all areas of the world, as well as an established McDonald's Plan to Win -- which represents a strategic link to the business priorities established by Jim Cantalupo and Charlie Bell. They will also have the full support and confidence of our entire system of owner-operators, employees and suppliers -- a unique global alliance that keeps McDonald's strong."
 


