FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040810161027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events.
 
On August 9, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's July 2004 sales. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 6.4% for the month. Systemwide sales, which includes sales for all McDonald's restaurants, increased 10.6%, or 7.2% in constant currencies, compared with July 2003.
Charlie Bell, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our customer-driven Plan to Win continues to generate excellent sales momentum. In July we achieved positive comparable sales across all business segments for the eighth time in the last nine months. Globally, we continue to increase sales and customer visits. For July, a positive trading day impact, which varied around the world, also contributed to our comparable sales performance.
"In the U.S., comparable sales were up 7.8% for the month, on top of a 9.9% increase in July 2003. These results demonstrate the sustainability of our Plan and the staying power of our renewed momentum. This week the U.S. celebrates the opening of the 2004 Summer Olympic games with the official launch of our newest product offering  Chicken Selects premium chicken breast strips. Chicken Selects add a great-tasting, premium product with a strong adult appeal to our chicken line-up.
"In Europe, comparable sales increased 2.1% for the month and were up 3.7% year-to-date. While I am encouraged by Europe's progress to date, I have higher expectations for revitalizing the performance of this key business segment. Ongoing emphasis on contemporary food offerings, outstanding everyday value and service, along with the rejuvenation of our business in the U.K., will be the keys to delivering steady improvement over the long term. This month, as the Official Restaurant of the 2004 Olympic Games, our team in Europe looks forward to serving our menu, which
provides a familiar taste of home,' to the estimated 300,000 athletes, coaches and spectators expected to visit McDonald's three Olympic Games restaurant sites in Athens. In conjunction with the Olympics, Europe's Salads Plus markets will feature the "Go Active
TM
Adult Happy Meal
."
"In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa we posted strong monthly comparable sales for July, driven by Australia, Japan and Hong Kong, as our initiatives to enhance the variety and value of our menu continue to attract new customers.
"Our results to date reflect the strength of our commitment to enhancing McDonald's brand relevance and improving the operational execution in our restaurants. As we continue through 2004, we will maintain our intense focus on delivering a superior restaurant experience to our customers. We will accomplish this by getting even better at each of the five P's in our Plan to Win  People, Product, Place, Price and Promotion. While we still have work to do, we look forward to the opportunities that lie ahead as we continue the revitalization of McDonald's."
 
 
Definitions
 
 
payments.
 
 
Upcoming Communications
Key members of McDonald's management team will speak at 10:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) at the Goldman Sachs Global Retailing Conference on September 8, 2004. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
The Company plans to release August 2004 sales information on Wednesday, September 8.
 
More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve about 47 million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of August 9, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 


