FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040126173032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting fourth quarter and 2003 year-end results and the retirement of Fred Turner.  The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto.   Also furnished as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Investor Release
OAK BROOK, IL -- McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the fourth quarter as its revitalization plan continued to deliver above plan performance for the Company.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Cantalupo said, "I am energized by the achievements of our System in 2003, particularly by the momentum we built throughout the year. We began 2003 with many challenges to overcome. While much hard work remains, our improving performance clearly indicates that our Plan to Win is delivering, and inspires us to work even harder in 2004 on behalf of our customers.
"From the very beginning, we introduced a new level of discipline and focus to all aspects of the business. In 2003, we eliminated projects not directly impacting our customers' experience, narrowed our non-McDonald's brand activities, aligned our System around a single action plan, and re-established McDonald's marketing leadership through the introduction of our first ever global brand direction, 'i'm lovin' it
TM
'.
"There is solid evidence that our aggressive actions are paying off. We concluded the first year of our revitalization with strong operating results. The U.S. continued its impressive performance with robust sales and margins. Europe's revenues and sales improved during the fourth quarter, and the region delivered sequential quarterly comparable sales improvements throughout 2003. In our Asia/Pacific region, revenues and sales also improved during the year. Clearly, 2003 was a watershed year for McDonald's. Our strategic shift from growing by being bigger to growing by being better has reignited the power of our global System and created a more relevant McDonald's."
 
McDonald's reported the following fourth quarter highlights:
 
 
McDonald's performance improved throughout the year as successful initiatives took hold. Full year 2003 highlights include:
Cantalupo added, "Our consolidated financial performance reflects achievement of key priorities that we established for 2003  growing comparable sales and improving profitability at existing restaurants. In addition, we significantly reduced capital expenditures, and delivered on our commitments to pay down debt and return cash to shareholders through share repurchase and a higher dividend.
"As we enter the second year of our revitalization, we are sharply focused on several business initiatives. In 2004, improving operations at each of our existing restaurants will remain our top priority. As a result, we will spend more on reimaging restaurants, while opening a similar number of units in 2004 as in 2003. Our capital expenditures for the year are targeted at $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion. We plan to further improve our financial position by paying down $400 million to $700 million in debt, and expect to return about $1 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. Looking ahead to 2005 and beyond, we continue to target annual Systemwide sales and revenue growth of 3% to 5%, annual operating income growth of 6% to 7%, and annual returns on incremental invested capi tal in the high teens."
 
SENIOR CHAIRMAN FRED TURNER RETIRES
 
"McDonald's is succeeding because we have returned to the type of disciplined leadership that historically made our System great," said Jim Cantalupo. "That leadership is personified in Fred Turner, and it is with very mixed emotions that I announce his retirement as Senior Chairman of the Board of Directors after 48 legendary years with McDonald's. Fred is our pioneer, our mentor, our heart and soul, and, without doubt,
one of the finest men I have ever met. Fred's history is literally McDonald's history, so there is no way that we can ever repay or replace his leadership. All we can do is continue his legacy  every day, in every restaurant  by relentlessly pursuing operational excellence. Every time we please a customer, we honor Fred Turner."
Senior Chairman Turner announced his retirement in a letter sent today to the McDonald's System, which included the following comments . . .
"Under Jim Cantalupo's able direction, our beloved McDonald's System is making good progress . . . with much ahead . . . and we're off to a great start on getting our McHouse where it needs to be. Jim's been CEO for a year, and at this time I've decided to hang up my spatula. I feel the time is right . . . I'm a very lucky man to have joined Ray Kroc when our System was a teen number of stores . . . I believe I helped make a difference. . . let's remember we're all lucky to be under the Arches. Your job is to help make a difference."
 
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS - CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
Constant currency
results are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
Systemwide Sales
include sales by all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements.
Comparable Sales
represent the constant currency change in sales from the same period for Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
Return on incremental invested capital
is the change in operating income plus depreciation divided by the change in gross assets, and excludes the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of January 26, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying our forward-looking statements are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on January 27, 2004. For access, go to
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
. An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
         The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain compensation plans on these results, because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
   
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on the growth rates of consolidated revenues, operating income and earnings per share for the quarter and year, due to the strengthening of several major currencies, primarily the Euro.
Revenues and Systemwide Sales
 Revenues include sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees or affiliates under joint-venture agreements. These fees include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales with specified minimum payments, along with initial fees.
   
 
 
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands.
n/a Not applicable
 
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands.
n/a Not applicable
 
 
 Comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months. Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry, and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants.
   
U.S.:
In 2003, the U.S. achieved its highest annual comparable sales increase since 1987. Ongoing service, value and menu initiatives drove the revenue increases for the fourth quarter and year. These initiatives included Premium Salads, McGriddles breakfast sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets made with white meat, the Dollar Menu, popular Happy Meals, extended hours, and a new marketing direction.
Europe:
For the quarter and year, strong performance in Russia driven by expansion and strong comparable sales, along with expansion in France were partly offset by negative comparable sales in the UK. Revenues for the year were also affected by weak results in Germany, although Germany's performance improved in the second half of the year.
APMEA:
Positive comparable sales in Australia, expansion in China and negative comparable sales in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and South Korea impacted revenues for the quarter and year. One of the factors negatively affecting comparable sales in certain markets for the year was SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome).
Latin America:
Revenues increased for both periods in constant currencies primarily due to a higher percentage of Company-operated restaurants in 2003. In addition, revenues for the quarter increased as a result of the temporary closure of restaurants in Venezuela due to the national strike that began in December 2002.
 
 
 The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter and year. Systemwide sales include sales by all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements. While these amounts are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes that the following information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because they are the basis for which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenue (rent, service fees and/or royalties).
   
 
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands
n/a Not applicable
 
 
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands.
n/a Not applicable
 
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands.
n/a Not applicable
 
 
 
Operating Margins
* Operating margin information relates to McDonald's restaurants
and excludes non-McDonald's brands.
Combined
: Operating margin dollars increased $269.7 million or 25% for the quarter and $523.3 million or 11% for the year. Foreign currency translation benefited the combined margin dollars by $88.6 million for the quarter and $295.8 million for the year. The U.S. and Europe segments accounted for more than 80% of the combined margin dollars in both periods of 2003 and 2002.
U.S.: 
Company-operated margin percent increased for both periods primarily due to positive comparable sales and lower payroll as a percent of sales due to improved productivity, partly offset by higher commodity costs.
 
Europe:
For both periods, the Company-operated margin percent reflected improved margin performance in Germany and France and weak performance in the U.K.
   
APMEA:
For the quarter, strong comparable sales performance in Australia drove the Company-operated margin percent improvement. The margin percent declined for the year due to weak results in South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Franchised: 
For the quarter, the consolidated Franchised margin percent reflects positive comparable sales partly offset by higher occupancy costs, due in part to an increased proportion of leased sites. Positive comparable sales were offset by these higher occupancy costs for the year.
 The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
  
* Operating margin information relates to McDonald's restaurants
and excludes non-McDonald's brands.
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands
n/a Not applicable
Selling, general & administrative expenses increased 6% for the quarter and 7% for the year primarily due to higher performance-based incentive compensation, and severance and other costs associated with fewer restaurant openings. These incremental costs were partly offset by lower advertising expenses due to costs incurred to support the launch of the Dollar Menu in the U.S. in fourth quarter 2002. In addition, stronger foreign currencies increased selling, general & administrative expenses by $24.3 million for the quarter and $68.5 million for the year.
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
The increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflected a stronger performance in the U.S. for both periods and improved results from our Japanese affiliate for the quarter.
Significant charges are defined as charges for actions or transactions related to the implementation of special initiatives of the Company or items that are unusual or infrequent in nature. The Company does not include these items when reviewing business performance trends, because management does not believe these are indicative of ongoing operations.
Significant charges for the quarter and full year 2003 included $237.0 million related to the disposition of certain non-McDonald's brands; $147.7 million primarily related to asset/goodwill impairment mainly in Latin America; $35.1 million related to the revitalization plan actions of our Japanese affiliate; $29.6 million for restaurant closings associated with strategic actions in Latin America; and a favorable adjustment to the 2002 charge for restaurant closings of $41.8 million due to about 8 5 fewer closings. Significant charges in fourth quarter 2002 included $266.9 million primarily related to market restructuring costs; $359.4 million related to restaurant closings/asset impairment for 751 restaurants ($402.4 million for the year); and $183.9 million primarily related to the termination of a technology project.
Other expense for both periods reflected higher losses on asset dispositions and higher provisions for uncollectible receivables in 2003 compared with 2002. In addition, the full year 2003 included about $25 million of costs in the U.S. as a result of management's decision to significantly reduce capital expenditures.
Operating Income
* Other represents non-McDonald's brands
n/a Not applicable
n/m Not meaningful
 
U.S.:
In 2002, the fourth quarter and full year included significant charges of $99.2 million, primarily related to restaurant closings/asset impairment. Fourth quarter 2003 included a favorable adjustment of $11.4 million related to the 2002 charges. In addition, higher combined operating margin dollars were partly offset by higher other operating expenses for both periods and higher selling, general & administrative expenses for the year. Selling, general & administrative expenses were lower for the quarter.
 
Europe:
In 2002, the quarter and year included significant charges of $147.8 million, primarily related to restaurant closings/asset impairment. In 2003, the quarter included a favorable adjustment of $20.0 million ($2.5 million lower in
constant currencies) related to the 2002 charges. In addition, for the quarter and year, strong performance in Russia and expansion in France were partially offset by weak results in the UK. Operating income for the year was also affected by weak results in Germany, although Germany's performance improved in the second half of the year.
 
APMEA:
Results for both periods in 2003 included significant charges of $54.9 million ($4.6 million lower in constant currencies), primarily related to the revitalization plan actions in Japan, including a buyout of a Management Services Agreement with the founder of our affiliate in Japan, and goodwill impairment in certain markets. In 2002, the results included significant charges of $206.4 million for the quarter and $222.3 million for the year, primarily related to market restructures and restaurant closings/asset impairment. APMEA's results for the fourth quarter 2003 also included strong comparable sales in Australia and improved performance in Japan. For the year, positive results in Aust ralia were offset by
weak results in most markets, compounded by concerns about SARS
in certain markets.
 
Latin America:
Results for both periods in 2003 included significant charges of $108.9 million ($19.9 million lower in constant currencies) related to goodwill impairment and restaurant closings. In 2002, the results included significant charges of $115.2 million for the quarter and $142.3 million for the year, primarily related to restaurant closings/asset impairment. In addition, both periods in 2003 reflected weak results in Brazil and Argentina, and higher provisions for uncollectible receivables. Latin America's results for the year were negatively impacted by the national strike in Venezuela from December 2002 through mid-February 2003.
INTEREST, NONOPERATING EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
Interest expense for both periods reflected stronger foreign currencies, lower average debt levels, and lower average interest rates.
Nonoperating expense for the year reflected an $11 million loss on the early extinguishment of $200 million of debt in 2003 and higher foreign currency translation losses in 2003 compared with 2002.
The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter 2003 was 53.0% as certain restaurant closing/asset impairment charges were not tax effected. The effective rate for the full year 2003 was 35.7%. The impairment charges increased the rate 19.5 percentage points for the fourth quarter and 2.2 percentage points for the full year 2003.
Although the Company reported a pretax loss for the fourth quarter 2002, there was a tax provision for the quarter because the loss included certain charges that were not tax effected. The effective rate for the full year 2002 was 40.3%. The significant charges in 2002 increased the rate for the full year by 7.6 percentage points.
OUTLOOK
The information provided below is as of January 2004.
McDonald's expects net restaurant additions to add approximately one percentage point to sales growth in 2004 (in constant currencies). Most of this anticipated growth will result from restaurants opened in 2003.
In 2003, the Company opened 832 McDonald's restaurants (513 traditional and 319 satellites). In 2004, the Company expects to open about 850 McDonald's restaurants (550 traditional and 300 satellite restaurants). McDonald's restaurant additions, net of closings, totaled 162 (27 traditional and 135 satellites) in 2003, and are expected to total about 450 (250 traditional and 200 satellite restaurants) in 2004.
Comparable sales represent the constant currency change in sales from the same period in the prior year for Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months. As a guideline, assuming no change in cost structure, a one percentage point increase in U.S. comparable sales impacts annual earnings per share by about 2 cents, and an increase of one percentage point in Europe's comparable sales impacts annual earnings per share by about 1.5 cents. In 2003, comparable sales increased 2.4% worldwide and 6.4% in the U.S., while Europe's comparable sales decreased 0.9%.
McDonald's expects 2004 selling, general & administrative expenses to be relatively flat to up slightly in constant currencies and decline as a percent of Systemwide sales compared with 2003.
A significant part of McDonald's operating income is from outside the U.S., and more than 70% of total debt is denominated in foreign currencies. The Euro and the British Pound are the most significant currencies impacting our business. If the Euro and the British Pound both move 10% (compared with 2003 average rates), McDonald's annual reported earnings per share would change by about 5 to 6 cents. In 2003, foreign currency translation benefited diluted earnings per share by 7 cents.
 
 
For 2004, the Company expects its net debt principal repayments to be approximately $400 million  $700 million and expects interest expense to be relatively flat with 2003, reflecting stronger foreign currencies.
McDonald's expects the effective income tax rate for 2004 to be between 32.5% and 33.5%.
McDonald's expects capital expenditures for 2004 to be approximately $1.5 billion  $1.6 billion.
McDonald's expects to return about $1 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in 2004.
BALANCE SHEET
 
RESTAURANT INFORMATION
* At December 31, 2003 reflected the following satellites: U.S. 1,307; Germany
90; Japan 1,814; Canada 350. At December 31, 2002: U.S. 1,159; Germany
62; Japan 1,895; Canada 330;.
** Represents non-McDonald's brands.
 
* For 2003, reflected the sale of Donatos Pizzeria and the closing of all Donatos and Boston Market international locations.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain forward-looking statements are included in this exhibit. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this exhibit. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or
 
 
 
 
underlying our forward-looking statements: effectiveness of operating initiatives; success in advertising and promotional efforts; changes in global and local business and economic conditions, including their impact on consumer confidence; fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; competition, including pricing and marketing initiatives and new product offerings by the Company's competitors; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the Company's product offerings; spending patterns and demographic trends; availability of qualified restaurant personnel; severe weather conditions; existence of positive or negative publicity regarding the Company or its industry generally; effects of legal claims; cost and deployment of capital; change s in future effective tax rates; changes in governmental regulations; and changes in applicable accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not all inclusive.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


