FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040511161954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure.
 
On May 10, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's April 2004 sales. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that April 2004 Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 16.6%, or 11.3% in constant currencies, compared with April 2003. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 10.5% for the month.
 
Charlie Bell, McDonald's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "First, let me say that I am recovering nicely from the surgery I had last week. I feel good and I look forward to a complete recovery. I also feel good about our April sales results. We had another strong month, which is a credit to the strength and popularity of our brand, as well as our ongoing efforts to be relevant and customer focused.
 
"Our U.S. business had an outstanding month with comparable sales up 13.5%, driven by a combination of successful initiatives to enhance our customers' experiences. Tomorrow we will launch our first-ever "Go Active
TM
Adult Happy Meal" promotion featuring our new Fiesta Premium Salad, bottled water, a Stepometer
TM
and a booklet of walking tips  another one-of-a-kind innovation found only at McDonald's.
 
"Europe's April comparable sales increased 5.0% boosted by the introduction of the Salads Plus menu in Germany and the UK, along with a continued focus on everyday value offerings and improved service throughout Europe. By the end of May, the Salads Plus menu will be available in a total of fourteen European countries, including our three largest markets. We remain committed to increasing our relevance across the region through targeted service, food, value and marketing initiatives under our Plan to Win.
 
"April sales in our Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment reflected strong performance across several key markets driven by value and menu offerings, as well as comparison against weak, SARS-impacted results in the prior year in certain markets."
Bell added, "I am pleased with the progress we've made against our Plan to Win. While I recognize that last year's strong comparable sales will create more challenging monthly comparisons as we move throughout the year, I remain confident in our plans and the opportunities that exist to add even more customers to our restaurants in the future."
 
April Comparable Sales
 
 
April Systemwide Sales
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Related Communications
 
McDonald's tentatively plans to release May monthly sales on Monday, June 7, 2004.
 
More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve about 47 million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our newly designed website at to learn more about the Company.
www.mcdonalds.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of May 10, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 
 


