FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040209171738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 6, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's January sales. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99
Investor Release
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 19% in January 2004, compared with January 2003. In constant currencies, January Systemwide sales increased 11%. Led by strong performance in the U.S. and Europe, comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 10%.
 
 Jim Cantalupo, McDonald's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "I am confident 2004 will be a year of ongoing progress for McDonald's. We will continue to revitalize our business and improve our customers' experience thru better service and by enhancing our food taste, menu variety and value offerings, and creating more relevant marketing. Our goal for the year is to further strengthen the foundation of our business in order to sustain profitable growth through execution and innovation in 2005 and beyond. We are pleased that 2004 has begun with such strong momentum; still, we intend to remain disciplined and focused as we pursue our long-term growth objectives."
   
 
 
 
Definitions
 
Related Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release February sales on March 5, 2004.
 
   
 McDonald's plans to make a presentation to investors at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on March 8, 2004. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on McDonald's website at www.investor.mcdonalds.com.
   
 
   
 More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve 47 million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our newly designed website at
   
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of February 6, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual (10-K) and quarterly (10-Q) reports.


