FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20041019080821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 19, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter 2004 results. The press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004. The information furnished under this Item, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor Release
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL -- McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2004. The company reported diluted earnings per share of $0.61, up 42% for the quarter and $1.48, up 37% for the nine months driven by robust U.S. performance. In both periods, earnings per share included a $0.07 per share tax benefit. The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
President and Chief Executive Officer Charlie Bell said, "McDonald's Plan to Win and our focus on quality food, menu variety, compelling marketing, and outstanding customer service continue to drive global performance. For the third consecutive quarter, we increased customer visits, improved margins and delivered double-digit growth in earnings.
 
"McDonald's U.S. results were strong, especially in the face of increasingly difficult year-over-year comparisons. U.S. operating income exceeded $1.7 billion for the first nine months, and was more than $600 million for the third quarter. In addition, our U.S. business has now posted impressive comparable sales along with meaningful margin expansion for six consecutive quarters. Our sustained performance clearly indicates that our Plan to Win is delivering, with multiple integrated initiatives including relevant food and value offerings and added conveniences like extended hours and cashless payment options.
 
"In Europe, operating income for the nine months exceeded $1.1 billion, and was more than $400 million for the third quarter. However, high unemployment and low consumer confidence in Germany continue to impact our growth. We are leveraging the strengths of our everyday value offerings to attract more customers in this challenging economic environment. In the U.K., we are starting to make progress renewing consumer excitement in our Brand with enhanced food taste and variety and improved service. I am confident that we have the initiatives in place to optimize the long-term performance of this critical business segment.
 
"Operating income for McDonald's Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment exceeded $250 million for the first nine months, and was nearly $100 million for the third quarter. Comparable sales trends were strong, driven by efforts in Japan, Australia and China to distinguish our Brand through added value and menu variety.
 
"We continue to exercise strong financial discipline by managing costs and using our significant and growing cash flow to invest in the business and strengthen our balance sheet. In addition, we expect to return at least $1.3 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends in 2004.
 
"From a financial perspective, 2004 is shaping up to be a good year for McDonald's. We have fortified our foundation and positioned McDonald's for future growth. As we move forward, we will intensify our efforts around the Plan to Win and our strategy to be better, not just bigger. Despite our success, we are not satisfied. There is still much work to be done. We will stay focused on enhancing every element of the McDonald's Brand experience as we strive to become our customers' favorite place and way to eat."
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speaks only as of October 19, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our annual and quarterly reports.
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
McDonald's Corporation will host a live investor webcast at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on October 19, 2004. For access, go to . An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2004.
 
The Company plans to release October 2004 sales information on Monday, November 8, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2004. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
 
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
 
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Revenues
 
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
 
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter and nine months. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES PERCENT INCREASE / (DECREASE)
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
Operating Margins
 
COMPANY-OPERATED AND FRANCHISED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales:
 
COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
 
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTEREST, NONOPERATING EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
The information provided below is as of October 2004.
 
In 2004, McDonald's expects to open about 500 traditional McDonald's restaurants and 250 satellite restaurants and close about 200 traditional restaurants and 150 satellite restaurants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESTAURANT INFORMATION
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
At September 30, 2003: U.S. 1,239; Germany 80; Japan 1,815; Canada 337.
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain forward-looking statements are included in this exhibit. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this exhibit. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying our forward-looking statements: effectiveness of operating initiatives; success in advertising and promotional efforts; changes in global and local business and economic conditions, including their impact on consumer confidence; fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; competition, including pricing and marketing initiatives and new product offerings by the Company's competitors; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the Company's product offerings; spending patterns and demographic trends; availability of qualified restaurant personnel; severe weather conditions; existence of positive or negative publicity regarding the Company or its industry generally; effects of legal claims; cost and deployment of capital; changes in future effective tax rates; changes in governmental regulations; and changes in applicable accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not all-inclusive.
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 


