FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20041108145039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 8, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's October 2004 sales. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - Charlie Bell, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our customer-focused Plan to Win continues to generate impressive sales results. Global comparable sales were up 6.1% in October, against our toughest prior year comparison of 8.4% posted in October 2003. Systemwide sales for all McDonald's restaurants increased 9.5%, or 7.0% in constant currencies, compared with October 2003.
 "Our U.S. business had another robust month, growing comparable sales 7.5% on top of last October's outstanding 15.1% comparable sales result. This performance reflects the underlying strength and resilience of our integrated approach to improving the customer experience. In addition, McDonald's very popular Best Chance Monopoly Game contributed to October's performance in both years.
   
 "In Europe, comparable sales increased 2.0% for the month, driven primarily by a positive calendar shift, and were up 2.6% year-to-date. While the economic environment in Germany remains challenging, we are taking steps to optimize our value and product offerings, and working to enhance consumer perception of our brand. I am confident that solid execution behind these key priorities will enable Europe to reach its full potential.
   
 
   
 "In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales grew 6.1% in October and 6.5% year-to-date. Branded affordability programs, combined with relevant food and service initiatives, continue to benefit our business in China. A positive calendar shift also contributed to APMEA's October comparable sales result.
   
Australia, Japan and
 
 "We've made significant progress to date
   
, yet we know that more work and opportunities lie ahead. Our intense focus on
operational excellence and leadership marketing will allow us to maximize these opportunities
.
"
 
 
 
Definition
s
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release November sales performance on December 9.
 
 
 More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve about 47 million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our website at
   
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of November 8, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 
 


