FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20040427164426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 27, 2004, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting first quarter 2004 results. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is attached hereto. Also filed as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the first quarter, reporting diluted earnings per share of $0.40, up 38% over the prior year on strong comparable sales and improved margins.
 
McDonald's reported the following first quarter highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
Chief Executive Officer and President Charlie Bell, said, "Last week we suffered the tragic and sudden loss of our esteemed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jim Cantalupo. Jim was an incredibly inspiring and passionate leader whose legacy and impact on our System are as far reaching as our restaurants around the world. Jim's emphasis on the customer fostered a Systemwide dedication to delivering a superior restaurant experience. My management team and I remain firmly committed to strengthening McDonald's relevancy and continuing the momentum that began under Jim's leadership.
 
"We delivered impressive first quarter results fueled by the overall performance of our U.S. business, improved comparable sales across all geographic segments, and increased margins. We served 2.3 million more customers during the first quarter compared with the same period in the prior year  the equivalent of adding roughly 1,500 restaurants, yet we added only 100 restaurants over the past 12 months. In addition, we achieved double-digit growth in Systemwide sales and generated operating income growth of more than 25% in the first quarter. To date in April, U.S. sales remain strong, and as expected, Europe's sales trends have improved significantly compared with March, following the successful launch of the Salads Plus menu in several key markets. These results are a clear indication that our Plan to Win is working.
 
"At the beginning of last year we mapped out our path to predictable, sustainable growth beginning in 2005. Since then, we've raised the bar on operations excellence and leadership marketing, and we've seen a fundamental lift in our business. Last week, our global System came together at McDonald's Worldwide Convention. It is evident that the improvements we've made on behalf of our customers worldwide have rekindled the System's enthusiasm and competitiveness. Our franchisees and local management teams are aligned and infused with the i'm lovin' it' spirit. The entire McDonald's System is energized and excited about our momentum and opportunities. As we have done during the past 16 months, we will forge ahead with the business of delivering a great McDonald's experience for every one of our customers  it is the greatest tribute we can pay to Jim."
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
 
results are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
Constant currency
 
include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements.
Systemwide Sales
 
represent sales at Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months, excluding the impact of currency translation.
Comparable Sales
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of April 27, 2004. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 8:30 a.m. Central Time on April 28, 2004. For access, go to . An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.
 
The Company plans to release April 2004 sales information on Monday, May 10.
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
*     Relates to change in accounting for asset retirement obligations in 2003.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
 
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
 
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
Revenues
 
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all Systemwide restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
 
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES PERCENT CHANGE
Quarter Ended March 31, 2004
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
Operating Margins
 
COMPANY-OPERATED AND FRANCHISED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
 
COMPANY-OPERATED COSTS AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Operating Income
 
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
INTEREST, NONOPERATING EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
The information provided below is as of April 2004.
 
 
In 2004, McDonald's expects to open about 550 traditional McDonald's restaurants and 300 satellite restaurants and close about 300 traditional restaurants and 100 satellite restaurants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dollars in millions
 
RESTAURANT INFORMATION
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Certain forward-looking statements are included in this exhibit. They use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this exhibit. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or underlying our forward-looking statements: effectiveness of operating initiatives; success in advertising and promotional efforts; changes in global and local business and economic conditions, including their impact on consumer confidence; fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; competition, including pricing and marketing initiatives and new product offerings by the Company's competitors; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the Company's product offerings; spending patterns and demographic trends; availability of qualified restaurant personnel; severe weather conditions; existence of positive or negative publicity regarding the Company or its industry generally; effects of legal claims; cost and deployment of capital; changes in future effective tax rates; changes in governmental regulations; and changes in applicable accounting policies and practices. The foregoing list of important factors is not all-inclusive.
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 


