FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050308171735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
   
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On March 8, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's February 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
McDonald's Global Comparable Sales Increase for the 22
ND
Consecutive Month
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 4.4% in February, 2.7% in constant currencies, compared with February 2004. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 1.6%.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "We delivered solid results in February against the prior year's outstanding global comparable sales performance that included one extra day due to leap year. For February 2005, U.S. comparable sales rose 4.6% despite three percentage points of negative impact as we lapped the leap year benefit. The ongoing strength of the strategic U.S. menu, marketing and service initiatives, as well as strong consumer response to our nationally advertised Chicken Selects
sampling event contributed to the monthly performance.
"In Europe, comparable sales declined 3.4%, reflecting a nearly four percentage point negative impact due to leap year. In addition, Germany's results were weak, partly due to inclement weather that affected results throughout Europe. In response to Germany's ongoing economic challenges, we continue to emphasize our everyday value menu balanced with premium product offerings to satisfy customers' appetite for choice and variety. We remain focused and disciplined as we work to strengthen our performance across Europe. I am confident that we are taking the right steps to build sustainable momentum in this critical business segment.
"Our Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment delivered positive monthly comparable sales of 1.7% despite a five percentage point negative leap year effect. February 2005 results for the segment reflected positive impact in several markets from
the Chinese New Year holiday as well as continued solid performance in Taiwan and Australia.
"
Later this morning in New York City, McDonald's will announce the details of a new worldwide campaign to promote balanced, active lifestyles. Additional details will be available after 10:00 a.m. ET at
www.mcdonalds.com
.
         *   Excludes non-McDonald's brands
 
   
  **  Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
   
   
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
Jim Skinner, McDonald's Chief Executive Officer, will speak at the Bear Stearns Retail, Restaurant & Apparel Conference at 12:15 p.m. (Eastern Time) on March 10, 2005. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
McDonald's tentatively plans to release March sales on April 13, 2005.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in 119 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 
 


