FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20051017123215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 12, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's third quarter comparable sales and preliminary earnings per share. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
   McDonald's Reports September Sales and Preliminary Third Quarter EPS
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants rose 6.3% in September, 6.0% in the third quarter and 6.7% year to date. In constant currencies, these increases were 5.0%, 5.1% and 4.9%,
 
respectively.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "Combined initiatives focused on providing customers more menu variety, compelling everyday value, convenient and contemporary restaurants, and relevant marketing continue to deliver results worldwide.
"Our U.S. business has now posted 30 consecutive months of comparable sales increases. September's solid performance was primarily due to positive customer response to our new Premium Chicken Sandwiches, more convenient hours and strong breakfast business. This result was despite the impact of the hurricanes in the Gulf and a tough prior year comparison reflecting the successful 2004 Chicken Selects launch.
"In Europe, we're building sales momentum and increasing customer visits in key markets by complementing our classic core menu with enhanced menu variety and compelling value. For example, Germany's limited-time Bigger, Big Mac promotion along with the Ein Mal Eins value menu and recent national coupon promotion drove strong results in the month. In the United Kingdom, we're encouraged by the initial consumer response to the Toasted Deli Sandwich launch that is supported with a significant marketing effort including a strong sampling program.
 
 "In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, our ongoing initiatives to enhance menu variety and value contributed to comparable sales rising 2.2% for the month and 3.5% for the quarter."
   
 
 
 
 
P
reliminary third quarter 2005 earnings per share of about $0.58 includes $0.02 per share of income primarily related to the completion of the transfer of the Company's ownership interest in an international market to a developmental licensee. As discussed in the footnotes to the Company's 2004 financial statements, third quarter 2004 pro forma earnings per share of $0.59 included $0.02 per share of share-based compensation expense as well as a $0.07 per share tax benefit primarily due to the transfer of shares between subsidiaries.
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 20, 2005, and will host an investor webcast at 10:30 am Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 


