FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050509153150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 9, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's April 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 6.7% in April, or 3.9% in constant currencies. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 2.8%.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our strategic focus on our customers and restaurants continues to drive our business with April marking our 24th consecutive month of global comparable sales increases.
 "Building on its strong momentum, our U.S. business posted a 4.7% comparable sales gain in April as a result of combined operations and marketing initiatives that continue to enhance our consumer relevance. Tomorrow McDonald's U.S.A. will launch national advertising of our new Fruit & Walnut Premium Salad. Available all day long, this exciting premium menu addition provides even more choice and variety for our customers.
   
"In Europe, April comparable sales were down 0.7% against last year's 5.0% increase. April 2005 results were hurt by the previously discussed shift of Easter and related school holidays from April in 2004 to March in 2005. We also continue to face a challenging operating environment in Germany and the United Kingdom. Despite this, I'm confident we are on the right track in Europe by delivering more relevant marketing, additional menu variety and everyday branded affordability.
"Comparable sales for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa were up 1.6% in April driven by positive performance in Australia, Japan and Taiwan, partly offset by weakness in China.
 
 
"Globally, we will continue to build on the momentum of our Plan to Win. W
e know we are only as good as our customers' last visit, so we are strengthening our efforts to further enhance their overall experience through operations excellence and leadership marketing.
"
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
Jim Skinner, Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Paull, Chief Financial Officer will speak at Sanford Bernstein's 21
st
Annual Strategic Decisions Conference at approximately 9 am (Eastern Time) on June 2, 2005. A link to the live and archived webcast of this presentation will be available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com.
 
  
   
 
 McDonald's plans to release May sales information on June 8, 2005.
   
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
   
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 


