FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050808145646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 8, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's July 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
McDonald's Reports July Comparable Sales Up 4.9%
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 6.1% in July, or 6.0% in constant currencies. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 4.9%.
 McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Strategic initiatives aligned with our Plan to Win are strengthening our competitive position and delivering positive results worldwide. In the U.S., we're building momentum through ongoing initiatives that enhance our convenience and menu variety. With U.S. comparable sales up 4.9% in July, we've now achieved 28 consecutive months of positive performance.
   
 "In Europe, comparable sales rose 5.3%, primarily due to positive performance in France and Germany. Customers in both countries are responding to premium products like our Big Tasty hamburger and compelling value propositions such as our Les Petit Plaisir chicken sandwiches in France and Ein Mal Eins branded affordability platform in Germany. I am encouraged by these results; however, we know that in some markets we still have challenges to achieving consistently positive performance.
   
 "In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales increased 4.1% Australia's continued strong performance. This segment also benefited from a positive calendar shift.
   
in July led by
 "We've made substantial progress since implementing our Plan to Win in early 2003. Yet there is much more to do. We will continue to take action in every aspect of our Plan to Win to further connect with customers by offering everyday value, outstanding service, compelling marketing and great menu choice in a contemporary restaurant environment."
   
 
 
   
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's tentatively plans to release August sales on September 9, 2005.
   
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
   
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 


