FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050421081356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release announcing the Company's first quarter 2005 results. The investor release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the first quarter, reporting diluted earnings per share of $0.56, up 40% over the prior year.
 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "We continued our positive momentum in the quarter with solid revenue and operating income growth, on top of last year's outstanding double-digit growth that included one additional day due to leap year.
 
"In March, McDonald's U.S. business marked its 24th consecutive month of positive comparable sales  a feat not achieved in nearly 25 years. I am encouraged by the ongoing strength and resilience of our U.S. business. Revenues increased 6% during the quarter and strong comparable sales helped offset higher commodity costs. We will continue to build consumer relevance in the U.S. by providing menu choice and variety, and an exceptional customer experience each and every time.
 
"For the first quarter, Europe delivered solid Systemwide sales and revenue growth fueled by positive comparable sales results in Germany, the U.K. and France. Results for the quarter also benefited from the change in timing of Easter and related school holidays, from April in 2004 to March in 2005. While we continue to face economic challenges in Germany, our ongoing emphasis on offering a balanced menu featuring everyday affordability along with relevant premium menu choices is helping build sales and customer traffic. Similarly, initiatives in the U.K. to enhance the image and relevance of our brand drove stronger results in the quarter. While we clearly have more opportunity and work ahead, I am confident that we are on track to optimize the performance of our European business.
 
"Our Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment also delivered a solid quarter. Our ongoing commitment to everyday value balanced with premium products that appeal to local tastes contributed to the segment's financial results.
 
"The celebration of McDonald's 50th anniversary last week, while significant and celebratory, is just a marker on our journey of continuous improvement. With a renewed focus on our customers and restaurants and dedication to the key components of our Plan to Win  operations excellence, leadership marketing and strict financial discipline  I am confident that the next 50 years will be even better than the first 50."
 
The first quarter 2005 earnings per share of $0.56 included a tax benefit of $179 million (or $0.13 per share) primarily due to a favorable audit settlement in late March of the Company's U.S. tax returns.
 
Although not required until next year, the Company began expensing stock options under the new accounting rules during the quarter. In that connection, the Company also shifted a portion of share-based compensation to cash-based compensation. First quarter 2005 results include $57 million (or $0.03 per share) related to share-based compensation and this shift.
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
 
represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants in operation at least thirteen months, excluding the impact of currency translation. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
 
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
 
include sales at all restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates. Management believes Systemwide sales information is useful in analyzing the Company's revenues because franchisees and affiliates pay rent, service fees and/or royalties that generally are based on a percent of sales with specified minimum rent payments.
Systemwide sales
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on
April 21, 2005. For access, go to www.investor.mcdonalds.com. An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
 
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Information showing the impact of the stock option accounting change on a comparable
period-to-period basis is included in that Form 8-K.
 
The Company plans to release April 2005 sales information on Monday, May 9.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
 
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
 
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Accounting Change
 
Effective January 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), , although not required to do so until 2006. This new accounting standard requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. The Company adopted this accounting treatment prospectively. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company, like most other U.S. companies, accounted for share-based payments to employees under APB Opinion No. 25, , and related Interpretations. Accordingly, share-based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure in the financial statement footnotes. The Company's first quarter 2004 pro forma earnings, as reported in Form 10-Q, included $0.03 per share of share-based compensation expense.
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
In 2005, in connection with its adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company adjusted the mix of employee long-term incentive compensation by reducing stock options awarded and increasing cash-based incentives and other equity based awards. First quarter 2005 results included pretax expense of $57.4 million (or $0.03 per share) of which $48.1 million related to share-based compensation, stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), and $9.3 million related to the shift of a portion of share-based compensation to primarily cash-based incentive compensation.
 
Net Income and Diluted Net Income per Common Share
 
For the quarter, net income and diluted net income per common share increased to $727.9 million and $0.56 per share or 42% and 40%, respectively (41% and 40%, respectively in constant currencies). The 2005 results included a $0.13 per share benefit from a lower effective tax rate as well as $0.03 per share of expense related to the early adoption of SFAS 123(R) and related incremental compensation.
 
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the first quarter increased due to higher weighted average shares outstanding and a more dilutive effect of outstanding stock options.
 
During the quarter, the Company repurchased $437 million, or 13.5 million shares, of its common stock.
 
Revenues
 
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all McDonald's restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
 
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES PERCENT INCREASE / (DECREASE)
Quarter ended March 31, 2005
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Operating Margins
 
COMPANY-OPERATED AND FRANCHISED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales:
 
COMPANY-OPERATED COSTS AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
 
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Corporate-$18.4.
 
 
The following discussion on Operating Income relates to Pro Forma % Inc/(Dec) Excluding Currency Translation in the table above:
 
 
 
 
 
INTEREST, NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
The information provided below is as of April 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESTAURANT INFORMATION
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This report contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 



