FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20051212163239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On December 8, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's November and year-to-date 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
  McDonald's Reports November Comparable Sales Up 4.0%
   
 
   Driven by Ongoing Strength in the U.S.
   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 Global comparable sales increased 4.0% in November, 3.8% year-to-date
   
 U.S. comparable sales up 4.8% in November, 4.4% year-to-date
   
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 4.0% in November. Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants rose 1.7% for the month, or 5.0% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "We continue to make progress on delivering a relevant restaurant experience by maintaining our focus on our most important priority - our customers.
In November, this strategic focus helped generate another month of positive global comparable sales and increased customer visits.
"In the U.S., our strong sales momentum continued with November's comparable sales up 4.8%. Customer demand for McDonald's popular breakfast menu and extended hours contributed to the higher sales. Recently, McDonald's U.S. rang in the holiday season with the nationwide launch of the Arch Card - prepaid, re-loadable gift cards. Available throughout the year, this new payment option is the latest example of McDonald's ongoing commitment to providing relevant customer conveniences.
"In Europe, comparable sales were relatively flat for the month as our major markets went up against last year's aggressive sales building activities, including national coupon promotions in the U.K. and Germany. This impact was offset by strong comparable sales in Russia and other markets across the segment. Our European business remains focused on building brand relevance, enhancing menu variety and communicating our quality messages to consistently build sales across the segment.
 
 
"Comparable sales for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa were up 7.1% in November driven by strong results in Australia, Japan and Taiwan.
"As we move into 2006, we remain committed to enhancing brand relevance and delivering a superior McDonald's restaurant experience. I am confident that by maintaining the discipline essential to driving improved results
, we can generate sustained profitable growth for the McDonald's System and our shareholders.
"
During the fourth quarter, McDonald's will complete its annual asset impairment testing, and expects to record charges of about $0.02 per share, primarily related to asset impairment in South Korea. Separately, if average foreign currency exchange rates remain at current levels, McDonald's expects that earnings per share for the quarter would be negatively impacted by at least $0.01 per share.
 
Definitions
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release December sales on January 17, 2006.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
F
orward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 


