FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050121082057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 18, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting certain sales information for the month, quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Charles H. Bell, a Director and former President and CEO of McDonald's Corporation, died January 17, 2005.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit
Number
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 9.6% in December and 9.5% for the fourth quarter compared with the same periods in 2003. In constant currencies, the increases were 5.9% and 6.0% for the month and quarter, respectively. Comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 4.9% in December and 5.1% in the fourth quarter.
 McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our ongoing dedication to
   
operational excellence and leadership marketing generated positive global comparable sales during every month of 2004 - a feat not achieved since 1987. With consistent focus on the five key drivers of our Plan to Win - People, Products, Place, Price and Promotion - we served more than 48 million customers per day during 2004, an increase of 1.6 million customers per day over the prior year.
"
Our global results for December were fueled by the performance of our U.S. business, which continues to reflect the combined strength of our strategic service, menu and marketing initiatives. In Europe, December comparable sales rose 2.2%, driven by performance in the U.K. and France.
"I am pleased with our 2004 results, and remain confident that 2005 will be another strong year.
With relentless focus on our customers, global alignment around the Plan to Win, and ongoing fiscal discipline, we expect to further strengthen our business to
deliver sustained profitable growth for all McDonald's stakeholders."
McDonald's also noted that recently, a number of companies in its industry have announced an intention to modify their accounting treatment of leases and leasehold improvements as a result of a change in interpretation of existing generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In consultation with its external auditors, McDonald's has also decided to modify its accounting practice in this area. Based on its current assessment of the effects of this accounting change, McDonald's believes that this modification will primarily result in an acceleration of the recognition of rent expense under certain leases that include fixed rent escalations. As this change relates solely to accounting treatment, it will not affect McDonald's historical or future cash flows or the timing of payments under the related lease s. Based on our initial review, we do not expect the effect of this modification to be significant to our annual net income nor do we expect the cumulative effect of the change to be significant to our balance sheet. We expect to quantify the impact of the modification when we release 2004 earnings on January 28, 2005.
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's plans to release fourth quarter earnings before the market opens on January 28, and will host an investor webcast at 10:30 a.m. Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
. More than 30,000 local McDonald's restaurants serve
more than 48
million customers each day in more than 100 countries. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of January 18, 2005. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.


