FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20051020081350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's third quarter 2005 results. The investor release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced operating results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our continued focus on the Plan to Win and strong global alignment among owner/operators, suppliers and the Company generated solid operating results for the third quarter. In the U.S., our sales momentum continued despite strong prior year comparisons. Our results reflect the effectiveness of our "better, not just bigger" strategy as we continue to deliver a relevant restaurant experience that is resonating with customers and building brand loyalty.
 
"In Europe, we are focused on gaining traction and building momentum across the entire segment. We are pleased with our quarterly sales performance and increased customer traffic driven by Germany, France and Russia. We are encouraged by our progress and confident that our strategies to enhance our customers' experience through menu, marketing and value initiatives will continue to generate improvements over the long term.
 
"In McDonald's Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment, performance was driven primarily by strong results in Australia. We expect our continued focus on combined initiatives such as branded everyday affordability and new premium menu offerings to broaden customer relevance and drive improved results for the region.
 
"McDonald's global operations generate a significant amount of cash, and we remain committed to returning a meaningful percent of cash from operations to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. We increased our annual dividend for 2005 by 22% to $0.67 per share, on top of last year's 38% increase, reflecting our continued confidence in the strength of our business and reliability of our cash flow. For the full year 2005, we expect to return at least $2 billion to shareholders, and return an additional $5 billion to $6 billion during 2006 and 2007 combined.
 
"I am confident that we are entering the last quarter of 2005 with the right strategy in place to grow our business over the long term. We remain intensely focused on enhancing our customers' experience through operations excellence and leadership marketing. McDonald's powerful system is aligned behind the Plan to Win and committed to driving customer satisfaction and sustainable profitable growth."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
 
represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed, excluding the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be closed include road construction, reimaging or remodeling, and natural disasters such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
 
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, our forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as the supplemental information that accompanies this release and the Company's annual and quarterly reports.
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:30 a.m. Central Time on October 20, 2005. For access, go to www.investor.mcdonalds.com. An archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
 
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for additional, supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
The Company plans to release October 2005 sales information on Tuesday, November 8.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
 
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
 
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
 
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions, except per common share data
 
 
 
 
Accounting Change
 
Effective January 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), . This new accounting standard requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. The Company adopted this accounting treatment prospectively. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company, like most other U.S. companies, accounted for share-based payments to employees under APB Opinion No. 25, , and related Interpretations. Accordingly, share-based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure in the financial statement footnotes. The Company's third quarter and nine months 2004 pro forma earnings, as reported in its Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004, included $0.02 and $0.08 per share of share-based compensation expense, respectively.
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
In 2005, in connection with its adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company adjusted the mix of employee long-term incentive compensation by reducing stock options awarded and increasing cash-based incentives and other equity based awards. Third quarter 2005 results included pretax expense of $44.3 million (or $0.02 per share) of which $35.1 million related to share-based compensation, stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), and $9.2 million related to the shift of a portion of share-based compensation to primarily cash-based incentive compensation. For the nine months 2005, results included pretax expense of $146.8 million (or $0.08 per share) of which $119.0 million related to share-based compensation and $27.8 million related to the compensation shift.
 
Net Income and Diluted Net Income per Common Share
 
For the third quarter 2005, net income and diluted net income per common share were $735.4 million and $0.58, respectively. Third quarter 2004 diluted net income per common share was $0.61, excluding a pro forma expense of $0.02 per share related to share-based compensation as discussed in the section above. The 2004 results included a $0.07 per share tax benefit primarily due to the transfer of shares between subsidiaries and a change in assumptions about the utilization of certain loss carry forwards.
 
For the nine months 2005, net income and diluted net income per common share were $1,993.7 million and $1.56, respectively. The 2005 results included $178.8 million or $0.13 per share tax benefit primarily due to a favorable audit settlement of the Company's 2000-2002 U.S. tax returns and $112.0 million or $0.09 per share of incremental tax expense resulting from the decision to repatriate foreign earnings under the Homeland Investment Act. Diluted net income per common share for the nine months 2004 was $1.48, excluding a pro forma expense of $0.08 per share related to share-based compensation as discussed in the section above. The 2004 results included the $0.07 per share tax benefit discussed above.
 
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the third quarter and nine months increased due to a more dilutive effect of stock options, partly offset by treasury stock purchases.
 
During the nine months 2005, the Company repurchased nearly $1.2 billion or 37.3 million shares of its common stock.
 
Revenues
 
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all McDonald's restaurants in operation at least thirteen months.
 
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter and nine months. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Margins
 
COMPANY-OPERATED AND FRANCHISED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales:
 
COMPANY-OPERATED EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
 
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following discussion on Operating Income relates to the Pro Forma % Inc / (Dec) Excluding Currency Translation in the table above:
 
 
 
 
 
Interest, Nonoperating (Income) Expense and Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The information provided below is as of October 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This report includes forward-looking statements about our operating plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology. They reflect management's current expectations about future events and speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise them. Management's expectations may change or not be realized and, in any event, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and often beyond our control. For these reasons, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The following are some of the considerations and factors that could change our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) or affect our ability to realize them:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Statement Regarding Chipotle
 
This report does not constitute an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities of Chipotle, which will be made only by prospectus.
 
 



