FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050719085114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 15, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's second quarter comparable sales and preliminary earnings per share. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
McDonald's Announces Second Quarter Comparable Sales and
Preliminary Earnings Per Share
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
Global comparable sales rose 3.8% in June, 2.8% for the second quarter and 3.7% year-to-date
U.S. comparable sales rose 5.4% in June, 4.8% for the quarter and 5.0% year-to-date
Second quarter 2005 earnings per share is expected to be about $0.42, which includes $0.09 per share of incremental tax expense resulting from the decision to repatriate approximately $3.2 billion under the Homeland Investment Act, and a $0.02 per share expense related to share-based compensation
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 6.2% in June, 6.3% in the second quarter and 7.1% year-to-date. In constant currencies, these increases were 4.9%, 3.9% and 4.8%, respectively.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our aligned focus on further strengthening our worldwide business has produced another quarter of solid sales growth.
"In the U.S., we continue to deliver strong sales results on top of last year's outstanding performance. Customers continue to positively respond to new products such as the Fruit & Walnut Salad, core menu favorites and extended hours; all combining to keep our momentum going. With more restaurants open longer hours this summer and new Premium Chicken Sandwiches set to launch in August, I'm confident our U.S. business will continue to deliver good results.
"In Europe, we're building customer visits through greater menu variety and compelling value propositions, both of which contributed to positive comparable sales of
1.3% in June. Positive performance in France and Germany was partly offset by continued weakness in the United Kingdom. We're intensifying our focus on improving the restaurant experience through initiatives designed to deliver better service, enhanced food taste, and greater menu variety, choice and value. I am confident that our efforts under the leadership of new European President, Denis Hennequin, will maximize our business momentum across Europe.
    "In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales were up 2.9% in June, primarily driven by Australia's sustained strong performance."
 
 
 
The Company also announced its decision to take advantage of the one-time opportunity provided under the Homeland Investment Act to reduce future taxes by repatriating in 2005 approximately $3.2 billion of historical earnings from our international business. Accordingly, preliminary second quarter 2005 earnings per share of about $0.42 includes $0.09 per share (or about $112 million) of incremental tax expense related to this decision. The second quarter effective tax rate is expected to be about 43%, with the incremental taxes associated with repatriation representing about 12 points of this tax rate. The full year tax rate is expected to be about 30% to 31%.
Second quarter 2005 earnings per share also includes a pretax expense of $0.02 per share related to share-based compensation. As disclosed in the footnotes to the Company's 2004 financial statements, second quarter 2004 pro forma earnings per share of $0.44 included $0.03 of share-based compensation expense.
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's plans to release second quarter earnings before the market opens on
July 21, and will host an investor webcast at 9:30 a.m. Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's tentatively plans to release July sales on August 8, 2005.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 


