FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20050614100159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On June 8, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's May 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
McDonald's Reports May Global Comparable Sales
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants increased 5.9% in May, or 2.9% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our global alignment around our customer-centered Plan to Win continues to deliver solid results with comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide up 1.8% in May - our 25
th
consecutive month of positive global comparable sales increases.
"Our U.S. business once again posted strong results, with comparable sales up 4.2% for the month. Expanded menu choice and variety, like our new Fruit & Walnut Premium Salad, and more convenient service hours contributed to this performance. We'll continue to focus on combined initiatives to further enhance the customer experience.
"In Europe, comparable sales declined 1.4% in May. As previously reported, the business climate remains challenging in the United Kingdom and Germany. We continue to work our Plan to Win and are confident that it will build momentum over time. In Germany, our aggressive action plan is beginning to gain traction with customers responding to relevant menu offerings like the popular Big Tasty hamburger and our Ein Mal Eins branded affordability platform, which features 11 items for 1 euro each.
"In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa comparable sales were down 0.6%, as positive results in Australia were negatively offset by performance in Japan.
"Looking ahead, we will continue to direct our efforts toward maintaining our momentum in the U.S. and strengthening our performance around the world
.
We remain singularly focused on providing a great McDonald's experience to customers each and every time.
"
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's plans to release June sales information before the market opens on July 15, 2005.
   McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants
   
worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 


