FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20051109104644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On November 8, 2005, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's October 2005 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
McDonald's Reports October Comparable Sales Up 3.4%
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
Investor Release
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that comparable sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 3.4% in October. Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants rose 3.9% for the month, or 4.4% in constant currencies. This continues to be in line with the Company's stated long-term, top-line growth expectations of 3% to 5%.
 
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "I am pleased that our System has delivered global comparable sales increases throughout 2005, including comparable sales increases across all geographic segments this month. We continue to connect with our customers through our Plan to Win, which is focused on our customers and backed by actions that are delivering sales momentum and traction. However, I know there is still more to do. We will continue to focus on improving service, enhancing menu variety and building brand relevance to drive sales and profits at our existing restaurants.
 
"In the U.S., customers are responding to our compelling value, the choice and variety on our menu and conveniences such as extended hours. In addition, the ongoing popularity of McDonald's Best Chance Monopoly game contributed to the U.S. performance for the third consecutive year. October comparable sales climbed 3.0%, despite temporary restaurant closures resulting from this year's major hurricanes.
 
"In Europe, comparable sales rose 3.3% for the month, driven primarily by France and Germany. In both markets, the winning combination of premium menu selections featured alongside everyday value offerings continues to generate increased customer visits. In the U.K., we are working to build momentum by further communicating our product quality and balanced, active lifestyle messages while providing relevant new menu choices like the Toasted Deli Sandwiches launched in mid-September.
 
"Comparable sales for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa were up 4.3% in October driven by positive results in Australia and Japan."
 
 
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
 
McDonald's tentatively plans to release November sales on December 8, 2005.
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 




