FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060608154543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 On June 8, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys May and year-to-date 2006 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
   
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
   
 
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
 
 
 
 

                   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonalds restaurants worldwide increased 6.2% in May, or 5.5% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented,
"McDonald's ongoing business momentum continues to be powered by our customer-focused Plan to Win. We are attracting customers to our restaurants around the world with expanded menu choice and variety, quality food, greater customer conveniences and relevant marketing.
"In the U.S., were appealing to customers contemporary lifestyles with our popular breakfast menu featuring the recently launched premium coffee blend; new products like our unique Asian Salad and Premium Chicken Sandwich line; and our longer, more convenient hours. Our enhanced consumer relevance is driving sustained strong results, with comparable sales up 3.4% for the month.
"Comparable sales increased 4.9% in Europe, driven by positive performance in France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Our business benefited from combined initiatives that feature premium selections like the Chicken Mythics promotion in France and the Big Tasty in Germany, alongside our everyday low price offerings and classic menu favorites. In addition, innovative marketing linked to the World Cup, including the U.K.s text message-to-win game, contributed to these results.
"Comparable sales were up 6.5% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa primarily due to strong sales in Japan and sustained positive performance in Australia.
"I am pleased with our results and am confident we will continue to build long-term profitable growth for our shareholders and the global McDonalds System.
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
2
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release June sales on July 17, 2006.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual (10-K) and quarterly (10-Q) reports.
 
 


