FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060209075126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On February 8, 2006, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's January sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
McDonald's Kicks Off 2006 with Strong Global Sales in January
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 5.7% in January, on top of a 5.2% increase achieved for January 2005.
 McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented,
   
"W
e are delighted with January's global sales performance, particularly the exceptional sales results posted in the U.S. January marks our 33
rd
consecutive month of positive global comparable sales increases, reflecting the ongoing strength of initiatives designed to enhance our custom er relevance.
 "In the U.S., our momentum continued with January
   
comparable sales up nearly 10% driven by the underlying strength of our Plan to Win. Our strong breakfast business, popular core and premium menu choices, everyday value, extended hours, gift cards and mild January weather contributed to results.
 "In Europe, comparable sales were slightly negative for the month as France and Russia delivered strong sales performance partly offsetting weak sales results in the U.K. and Germany. Both the U.K. and Germany faced difficult comparisons against successful national coupon promotions in January 2005. In Germany, we are committed to our permanent value menu which is designed to drive sustainable growth. The U.K. continues to supplement their value platform with brand building efforts to drive performance in a challenging environment. We continue to focus on building momentum across
   
Europe through enhanced menu variety, compelling value and strong marketi ng.
 "In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales rose 3.3% driven primarily by Australia and China, partly offset by weak results in Japan.
   
 "I am
   
confident that 2006 will be another strong year for McDonald's as we
remain firmly focused on our customers and opportunities within the Plan to Win."
 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's tentatively plans to release February sales on March 8, 2006.
   
   
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
   
 


