FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060421081009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 21, 2006, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's first quarter 2006 results. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Company reported diluted earnings per share of $0.49 for the quarter, driven by positive comparable sales in all geographic segments.
OAK BROOK, IL
The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Strategic initiatives aligned behind McDonald's Plan to Win are strengthening our competitive position and delivering positive results worldwide. Performance for the first quarter reflected more customer visits and enhanced profitability as we continued to connect with our customers and increase the relevance of our brand.
"In the first quarter, the U.S. marked its 36th consecutive month of positive comparable sales. The ongoing momentum of our U.S. business drove the segment's double-digit revenue growth and margin improvement. We will continue to maximize our U.S. performance by providing customers with an exceptional experience that offers expanded menu choices like our Spicy Premium Chicken Sandwich and Premium Roast Coffee, enhanced conveniences including cashless payment options and gift cards and the compelling everyday value of our Dollar Menu. Next week, we'll add even more variety to our menu with the introduction of the new Asian Salad featuring grilled or crispy chicken, mandarin orange slices, red bell peppers, soybeans, snow peas and slivered almonds served with all-natural, Newman's Own Lighten Up! Low Fat Sesame Ginger salad dressing.
"In Europe and Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, our ongoing commitment to everyday value, balanced with premium products that appeal to local tastes contributed to each segment's financial performance for the quarter. While I am pleased with these results, we remain focused on further strengthening the contribution from both of these critical business segments.
"During the quarter we made progress on previously announced actions designed to enhance overall profitability and improve returns for all shareholders  we closed a limited number of restaurants in the U.K. in conjunction with the strategic review of the market's real estate portfolio, completed the buy out of certain franchisees in Brazil and moved forward on the anticipated sale of a small market in Europe to a developmental licensee. We remain committed to returning value to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends. This quarter, we bought back $1 billion or 29.5 million shares of McDonald's stock.
"Overall, our strong quarterly financial performance reflects diligent execution of our fundamental business drivers. Our results confirm that our strategy of growing by improving our existing restaurants and focusing on the 5 P's of People, Products, Place, Price and Promotion is the right strategy for McDonald's, our customers and our shareholders."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
2006
 
 
2005
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed, excluding the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be closed include road construction, reimaging or remodeling, and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:30 a.m. Central Time on April 21, 2006. A link to the live webcast will be available at and an archived replay of this webcast will be available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
The Company plans to release April 2006 sales information on May 9, 2006.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currencies on Reported Results
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on the growth rates of consolidated revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share for the quarter, primarily due to the weakening of the Euro.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the quarter, net income was $625.3 million and diluted earnings per share was $0.49. The 2006 results included operating expenses of $59.1 million after tax or approximately $0.045 per share primarily related to: previously announced actions taken for a limited number of restaurant closings in the U.K. in conjunction with an overall restaurant portfolio review; costs to buy out certain litigating franchisees in Brazil; and an impairment charge on the anticipated sale of a small market in Europe to a developmental licensee. In addition, 2006 results included a nonoperating gain of $45.6 million after tax or approximately $0.035 per share due to the IPO of Chipotle Mexican Grill and the concurrent sale of Chipotle shares. First quarter 2005 net income was $727.9 million and diluted earnings per share was $0.56. The 2005 results included a tax benefit of $178.8 million or $0.13 per share due to a favorable audit settlement of the Company's 2000-2002 U.S. tax returns.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 29.5 million shares of its stock for $1.0 billion.
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding decreased in the first quarter of 2006 due to treasury stock purchases exceeding stock option exercises in 2005 and the first quarter of 2006.
 
Table of Contents
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent, service fees and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all McDonald's restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of our franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest Expense
 
 
Table of Contents
Nonoperating Income, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Table of Contents
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in analyzing the Company's results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. By far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under conventional franchise, license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Our plan to reduce our ownership of restaurants may be difficult to achieve for many reasons, and the change in ownership mix may not affect our results as we now expect. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate, as well as our results. In particular, increasing consumer focus on food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand and may adversely affect our sales and costs of doing business.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we have designed and execute against the Plan to Win.
We developed the Plan to Win to address the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations.
Our plans call for a reduction in Company-operated restaurants in the U.K. by re-franchising them to third parties, as well as the pursuit of a developmental license model in between 15 to 20 additional markets and organizational changes to improve the performance of Company-operated restaurants in other markets, notably Canada. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has significantly increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions (such as the upcoming hurricane season), terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events (such as the potential spread of avian flu) can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the McDonald's System and our results and prospects in the affected markets. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



