FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060913094250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 12, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys August and year-to-date 2006 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
      McDONALD'S CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
  
              (Registrant)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Date:
 
September 13, 2006             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
By: 
 /s/ David M. Pojman   
   
   
   
      David M. Pojman
   
   
   
   
   
 
      Corporate Senior Vice President -
   
   
   
   
   
 
      Controller
   
   
   
   
   
 
3
 
Exhibit No. 99  
  
Investor Release of McDonalds Corporation issued September 12, 2006:
McDonalds Posts Another Strong Month; 
August Comparable Sales Up 6.0%
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonalds restaurants worldwide increased 8.6% in August, or 7.1% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said,
"Our ongoing efforts to enhance the McDonalds experience continue to attract even more customers into our restaurants. This intense focus on customers contributed to another consecutive month of strong global comparable sales growth, rising 6.0% in August."
U.S. comparable sales were up 3.5% for the month. The successful launch of the new Snack Wrap and the continuing popularity of McDonalds breakfast menu contributed to these results.
In Europe, nearly every country delivered positive performance, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom, resulting in comparable sales growth of 8.8%. McDonalds business in Europe continues to benefit from combined initiatives surrounding menu choice, variety and value along with relevant marketing.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, were up 6.1% primarily due to strong results in Japan.
Skinner concluded, "We will continue to build on our success with an unwavering commitment to satisfying new and existing customers. Our focus will include enhancement of our menu through choice and variety in both the food and prices we offer.
 
1
 
We will also create even more convenient and welcoming restaurants and further connect with customers by appealing to their passion for sports, entertainment, music, fashion and technology."
 
 
 
Definitions
2
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds tentatively plans to release September sales on October 12, 2006.
   McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local men and women. Please visit our website at
   
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed disposition by McDonalds of its interest in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. via a tax-free exchange offer, Chipotle has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement that includes an exchange offer prospectus. The prospectus contains important information about the disposition and related matters. Investors and security holders are urged to read the prospectus, and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC before making any investment decision. Neither McDonalds, Chipotle nor any of their respective directors or officers or any dealer manager appointed with respect to the exchange offer makes any recommendation as to whether you should participate in the exchange offer. You can obtain a free copy of the prospectus and other related documents filed with the SEC by McDonalds and Chipotle at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov, and those documents may also be obtained for free, as applicable, from McDonalds at www.investor.mcdonalds.com or Chipotle at www.chipotle.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
  Information in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the exchange offer, including future financial and operating results, and each companys plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, those forward-looking statements is detailed in the filings of McDonalds Corporation with the SEC, such as annual and quarterly reports and the exchange offer prospectus. McDonalds Corporation disclaims any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
   


