FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060510122247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 9, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys April and year-to-date 2006 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonalds restaurants worldwide increased 5.5% in April, or 7.3% in constant currencies. Global comparable sales rose 6.2% for the month.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented,
"We continue to drive sustainable monthly comparable sales growth by enhancing our consumer relevance. Our strong performance, along with the alignment of our owner/operators, suppliers and employees evident at our worldwide owner/operator convention last week, strengthens my conviction that our momentum will continue.
"April comparable sales increased 4.1% in the U.S. as our Spicy and Premium Chicken Sandwiches, market-leading breakfast business and more convenient hours fueled our performance. Our ongoing momentum is a result of combined initiatives designed to provide customers with a better overall experience.
"In Europe, strong results in all three of our largest markets drove comparable sales up 9.3% for the month. Contributing to these results was the limited-time offering of premium beef and chicken sandwiches in Germany and France and the return of the popular Monopoly game in the United Kingdom. Our everyday low price offerings, complemented by our premium menu selections, continue to be key elements leading our performance. Our business in Europe also benefited from the previously discussed shift of the Easter-related school and business holidays to April 2006 from March 2005.
"In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales rose 6.5% driven by Japan and Australia. Ongoing initiatives to provide locally relevant menu options and compelling everyday value contributed to these results.
 
 
1
 
"I am pleased with our performance to date but take nothing for granted. We remain committed to delivering enduring profitable growth by deepening our connection with customers and evolving our Plan to Win."
 
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release May sales on June 8, 2006.
McDonalds 2006 Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live over the internet on May 25, 2006, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast of this meeting will be available on
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 


