FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060720101745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
[X]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 On July 17, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys June, second quarter and year-to-date 2006 sales and preliminary earnings per share. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
   
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                              McDONALD'S CORPORATION
                                                               (Registrant)
Date: July 20, 2006                                                                                     By:    
/s/ David M. Pojman  
   
   
                                         David M. Pojman
                                         Corporate Senior Vice President -
                                         Controller
3
     
                           
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                       0;                                                      
 
              
                                                                                                                                                            ;                                                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonalds restaurants increased 8.1% in June, or 6.9% in constant currencies. For the quarter, Systemwide sales increased 6.6% as reported and in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our worldwide efforts to make the McDonalds experience increasingly relevant to todays consumers continue to deliver results with global comparable sales growing 5.9% in June and 5.5% for the quarter. We will further strengthen our connection with customers through combined initiatives surrounding menu choice, variety and value; convenient and contemporary restaurants and innovative marketing.
"In the U.S., McDonalds continues to be the favored breakfast destination, and we are now attracting even more customers. This positive breakfast trend and a popular Happy Meal promotion helped drive U.S. comparable sales up 5.2% in June.
"Germany, France and the United Kingdom each contributed to Europes strong comparable sales increase of 4.5% in June. Were building sales throughout Europe by appealing to a broad range of customer preferences with premium sandwiches and salads, classic menu favorites and everyday low-price offerings. We also shared their passion for the World Cup with exciting promotions in June.
1
 
 
            Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 8.8% in June, primarily due to strong performance in Japan and Australia.
Looking ahead, I am confident we will continue to build on our global comparable sales growth record by executing customer-focused initiatives that further enhance the relevance of the McDonalds experience.
 
 
 
 
 
       Second quarter 2006 earnings are expected to be about $0.67 per share. This preliminary earnings per share amount includes $0.10 of income related to the gain on the sale of a portion of our Chipotle Mexican Grill shares in the secondary offering completed in May; $0.01 of impairment expense primarily related to a loss on the anticipated sale of a market in APMEA to a developmental licensee; and $0.01 of incremental tax expense primarily related to the one-time impact from a tax law change in Canada. Second quarter 2005 reported earnings were $0.42 per share, which included $0.09 of incremental tax expense resulting from the decision to repatriate foreign earnings under the Homeland Investment Act.
2
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release second quarter earnings before the market opens on July 25, 2006 and will host an investor webcast at 10:30 a.m. Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonalds tentatively plans to release July sales on August 8, 2006.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed disposition by McDonalds Corporation of its interest in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. via a tax-free exchange offer, Chipotle will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a registration statement that will include an exchange offer prospectus. The prospectus will contain important information about the disposition and related matters, and McDonalds will mail the prospectus to its shareholders. Investors and security holders are urged to read the prospectus, and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC, when they become available and before making any investment decision. None of McDonalds, Chipotle or any of their respective directors or officers or any dealer manager appointed with respect to the exchange offer makes any recommendation as to whether you should participate in the exchange offer. You will be able to obtain a free copy of the prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed with the SEC by McDonalds and Chipotle at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov, and those documents may also be obtained for free, as applicable, from McDonalds at www.mcdonalds.com or Chipotle at www.chipotle.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Information in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the split-off, including future financial and operating results, and each companys plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, those forward-looking statements is detailed in the filings of McDonalds with the SEC, such as annual and quarterly reports and the prospectus (when available). McDonalds disclaims any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.


