FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060309170559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
1
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On March 8, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Companys February and year-to-date 2006 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales for McDonalds restaurants increased 4.7% in February.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our strategic initiatives and intense focus on the customer delivered another month of strong results. We posted positive comparable sales across all geographic segments for February and marked our 34 consecutive month of positive global comparable sales performance. Both achievements are a testament to the effectiveness and momentum of our Plan to Win.
th
"During February, we continued to satisfy our U.S. customers appetite for choice and variety with an appealing new menu addition - the Spicy Premium Chicken Sandwich. Our winning line-up of Premium Chicken Sandwiches, popular breakfast menu options and extended hours delivered a solid 3.6% increase in comparable sales, despite harsh weather in certain parts of the country.
"Europes February comparable sales rose 5.4% driven primarily by strong results in France and Germany. In addition, the U.K.s ongoing emphasis on brand building initiatives generated positive comparable sales in February. All three markets added greater variety and excitement to the menu by featuring premium burgers and specialty promotional menu options. We remain focused on building momentum across Europe by providing relevant menu selections and everyday value in an inviting and contemporary atmosphere.
 
 
 
1
"Im pleased with our sales results for the first two months of 2006, and Im confident that our Systems focus and alignment on executing the Plan to Win will deliver long-term profitable growth."
 
 
         * Excludes non-McDonald's brands
      ** Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
Jan Fields, President U.S. Central Division, will speak at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific Time) at the JP Morgan Gaming, Lodging and Restaurants Conference on March 22, 2006. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
2
 
 
McDonald's tentatively plans to release March sales on April 13, 2006.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, these forward-looking statements is detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.


