FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20060808152551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 8.01. Other Items.
 On August 8, 2006, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys July and year-to-date 2006 sales. The investor release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
   
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     Exhibits.
99     Investor Release of McDonalds Corporation issued August 8, 2006:
         McDonalds Momentum Continues; July Comparable Sales Up 3.8%
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                               McDONALD'S CORPORATION
 
                                     (Registrant)
   
Date:   August 8, 2006                                 By:   
   
   
   
 
  
/s/ David M. Pojman  
   
   
                                                                   David M. Pojman
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                       Corporate Senior Vice President - Controller
   
   
   
   
  
                                                                                                        
                         
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
IT 99
                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   60;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that Systemwide sales for McDonalds restaurants worldwide increased 6.7% in July, or 4.9% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "Our strategic focus on serving customers an effective balance of new products and classic menu favorites, as well as premium products and everyday value in convenient, contemporary restaurants is driving solid performance in every area of the world. Our new Snack Wrap - launched in the U.S. last week - is one example of how we are successfully building sales by appealing to customers across these multiple dimensions."
McDonalds U.S. business momentum continued in July with comparable sales increasing 1.9%, due to the ongoing popularity of the Companys breakfast menu featuring the new Premium Roast Coffee.
Comparable sales rose 5.0% in Europe driven by positive results in substantially all markets including France, the United Kingdom and Germany. The Companys three-tiered menu approach, with an emphasis in July on premium products complemented by special summertime dessert offerings, contributed to Europes strong performance.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales were up 5.4%, primarily due to strong sales in Japan.
Skinner concluded: "We are energized by our success and the significant opportunities that lie ahead. We intend to continue seizing our growth opportunities by further improving the McDonalds experience with even greater menu choice, variety and value; compelling marketing, outstanding service and enhanced convenience."
 
1
 
 
 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds tentatively plans to release August sales on September 12, 2006.
2
 
 
       McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Approximately 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent, local businessmen and women. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
  
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed disposition by McDonalds of its interest in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. via a tax-free exchange offer, Chipotle will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement that will include an exchange offer prospectus. The prospectus will contain important information about the disposition and related matters. Investors and security holders are urged to read the prospectus, and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC, when they become available and before making any investment decision. Neither McDonalds, Chipotle nor any of their respective directors or officers or any dealer manager appointed with respect to the exchange offer makes any recommendation as to whether you should participate in the exchange offer. You will be able to obtain a free copy of the prospectus (when available) and other related documents filed with the SEC by McDonalds and Chipotle at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov, and those documents may also be obtained for free, as applicable, from McDonalds at www.investor.mcdonalds.com or Chipotle at www.chipotle.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
       Information in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the exchange offer, including future financial and operating results, and each companys plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. A list of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or underlying, those forward-looking statements is detailed in the filings of McDonalds Corporation with the SEC, such as annual and quarterly reports and the prospectus (when available). McDonalds Corporation disclaims any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
  
 
 


