FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20071113094513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 On November 8, 2007, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys October and year-to-date 2007 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
   
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 6.9% in October. Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 14.2% for the month (8.2% in constant currencies).
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, 
   
We
are leveraging our
menu variety and value with convenient restaurant locations and innovative marketing to deliver a restaurant experience that resonates with customers. The combined strength of these strategic initiatives
continues to drive our business forward.
 In the U.S., comparable sales
   
climbed 5.4% as customers continue to visit McDonalds for the compelling value, new products, conveniences such as late-night hours and a wide-range of breakfast options. In addition, the ongoing popularity of the Monopoly game promotion contributed to performance for the fifth consecutive year.
  
   
In Europe, comparable sales rose 6.4% for the month, driven primarily by France, the U.K. and Russia. In each market, premium menu innovations along with everyday value offerings are driving results.
 In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, locally relevant products, extended operating hours and branded affordability menus fueled Octobers comparable sales increase of 9.4%. Strong performance in most markets, led by Australia, Japan and China, contributed to these results.
   
 
1
 
                       * 
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 
McDonalds will webcast the investor meeting it plans to host on November 13, 2007. Please access
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
for more information on presentation times and links to the live webcast. We will also have an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release November sales on December 10, 2007.
   
  
   
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. Please visit our website at
 
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
   
 
 
 
 


