FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20070611121428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 8, 2007, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys May and year-to-date 2007 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 8.7% in May. Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 11.9% for the month, 10.0% in constant currencies.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said,
"
May marks another month of strong sustained sales and shows how well we are providing solutions for todays busy lifestyles, with the convenience and value that customers expect from McDonalds. Weve re-energized our worldwide business with new food choices, redesigned restaurants and relevant marketing.
"
In the U.S., McDonalds successful Shrek the Third promotion, popular breakfast business and new products contributed to comparable sales growing 7.4% in May.
In Europe, comparable sales rose 8.9%. France, the U.K., Germany and nearly all other markets delivered positive results. Customers responded enthusiastically to the recent launch of Chicken Selects and Snack Wrap in Germany plus limited-time offerings of premium chicken and beef sandwiches in France and the U.K.
Robust sales in Japan, China, Australia and a majority of other markets in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa fueled the 10.2% comparable sales increase. Extended hours, breakfast, and relevant menu offerings continued to contribute to the segments results.
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
Skinner added,
"Around the world, demand for McDonalds continues to grow as we now serve 6 million more customers every day than we did in 2002. We are working to attract more customers, more often, through innovation, added convenience and greater menu choice to capture a larger share of the growing eating-out market."
 
 
  
   
   
                *  Excludes non-McDonald's brands
   
  ** Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
   
   
Definitions
2
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds tentatively plans to release June sales on July 16, 2007.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. Please visit our website at
 
www.mcdonalds.com
to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.


