FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20070716164743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 16, 2007, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's June, second quarter and year-to-date 2007 sales and preliminary earnings per share. A copy of the related Investor Release is being filed as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibit, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Investor Release
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 8.4% in June and 7.4% in the second quarter. Systemwide sales for McDonald's restaurants worldwide increased 12.5% for the month (9.7% in constant currencies) and 11.4% for the quarter (8.6% in constant currencies).
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "These strong results  our best quarterly comparable sales growth in three years  reflect our ongoing momentum and commitment to customers. To intensify this customer focus and continue to drive long-term results, we're maximizing our asset base and ownership structure through actions such as the previously announced developmental license transaction in Latin America. This strategic transaction optimizes our opportunity to participate in Latin America's future growth potential."
U.S. comparable sales rose 4.2% in June due to the ongoing strength of the Company's breakfast business and the everyday value and variety the McDonald's menu offers. In Europe, robust results throughout the segment including France, the U.K. and Germany, fueled June's 11.1% comparable sales increase. In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales were up 12.1% driven by strong sales growth in Japan, Australia and China and most other markets.
 
 
 
Earnings Per Share
The $1.31 per share impact of the previously announced sale of the Company's existing businesses in 18 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (Latam) to a developmental licensee organization consists of an impairment charge of $1.33, partly offset by a $0.02 benefit related to eliminating depreciation on the assets in these markets in mid-April 2007 in accordance with accounting rules. As a result of this transaction, the Company expects a net loss per share of about $0.60 for the second quarter 2007.
Excluding this impact, earnings per share will be approximately $0.71, reflecting a 34.2% effective income tax rate. In addition, foreign currency translation is expected to have a positive impact of $0.02 per share for the quarter.
Second quarter 2006 earnings per share of $0.67 included $0.11 of income from discontinued operations related to Chipotle Mexican Grill and $0.56 of income from continuing operations.
Presented below are reconciliations of the Company's reported earnings (loss) per share to adjusted earnings per share for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, and the effective income tax rate for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. While the Company has previously converted certain other markets to a developmental license structure, management believes the Latam transaction and the associated charge are not indicative of ongoing operations due to the size and scope of the transaction. Management believes that the adjusted results better reflect the underlying business trends relevant to the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
Definitions
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release second quarter results before the market opens on July 24, 2007, and will host an investor webcast at 10:30 a.m. Central Time. A link to the live and archived webcast will be available on .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's tentatively plans to release July sales on August 8, 2007.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 70% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.mcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.



