FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20070420075613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2007, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's first quarter 2007 results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibit, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Also filed herewith and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
As reported in Item 2.02, the Company has agreed to sell to a developmental licensee organization its existing operations and enter into a license arrangement with respect to Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (Latam). Also as reported, based on approval of the Latam transaction by the Company's Board of Directors, which occurred on April 17, 2007, the Company concluded Latam was "held for sale" as of that date in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144, . As a result, the Company will record an impairment charge of approximately $1.6 billion in the second quarter of 2007, of which only $15 million to $20 million (transaction costs) is expected to result in cash expenditures. This charge includes approximately $800 million for the difference between the net book value of the Latam business and the estimated cash proceeds to be received at closing of approximately $700 million (subject to working capital adjustments), less costs of disposal. The charge also includes historical foreign currency translation losses recorded in shareholders' equity of approximately $825 million.
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets"
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the first quarter, reporting diluted earnings per share of $0.62, up 27% over prior year earnings of $0.49 per share, and up 38% over prior year earnings from continuing operations of $0.45 per share. The Company also provided the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "Our customer-centric Plan to Win continues to drive McDonald's sustained momentum and is generating broad-based growth in our business. This quarter's results reflect higher revenues, increased customer visits and enhanced profitability as we keep our brand relevant through contemporary food and beverage offerings, modern restaurants and attractive everyday value. Our performance confirms that our emphasis on improving the McDonald's restaurant experience through focus on the 5 P's of People, Products, Place, Price and Promotion is the right strategy for our customers and McDonald's.
"In March, McDonald's U.S. business marked its 48
th
consecutive month of positive comparable sales  a milestone not achieved since 1980. We continue to optimize our U.S. performance by focusing on strategic initiatives that build upon our fundamental strengths of unparalleled convenience, compelling value and menu choice and variety.
"Europe delivered strong growth in the first quarter fueled by robust comparable sales across the segment. I am encouraged by the progress of our European business and the momentum we've created through focused execution of the Plan to Win.
"Quarterly performance in our Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa segment was also strong with our ongoing commitment to everyday value and locally relevant products driving comparable sales and financial results across the segment.
"I'm also pleased to announce that we reached an agreement that will result in the franchising of nearly 1,600 existing restaurants in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization led by Woods Staton. Woods is a highly respected entrepreneur in Latin America who has been a valued member of the McDonald's System for more than 20 years. As part of this transaction, McDonald's expects to receive approximately $700 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these operations, which will be coupled with a 20-year license arrangement. In line with our previous guidance, we expect to record an impairment charge of approximately $1.6 billion in the second quarter, which consists of about $800 million for the difference between the net book value of assets and the estimated cash proceeds, as well as $825 million for accumulated currency translation losses. The charge will be substantially all noncash. We anticipate the transaction to close in the next few months.
"For our customers and the McDonald's System, this transaction enables us to grow faster and become even more locally relevant in a part of the world that has exhibited strong demand for our Brand. For our shareholders, the strategic actions we're taking will reduce volatility and further solidify our commitment to generate strong returns and focus management's attention on the markets with the greatest impact on our results. We will use the proceeds received to increase the amount we expect to return to shareholders to at least $5.7 billion in 2007 and 2008 combined through dividends and share repurchases.
"Our priority remains to create long-term, profitable growth for all stakeholders. I am confident that the collective strength and alignment of McDonald's franchisees, suppliers and employees will continue to fuel our efforts and ensure that we sustain our momentum."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed, excluding the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be closed include road construction, reimaging or remodeling, and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:30 a.m. Central Time on April 20, 2007. A link to the live webcast will be available at . We will also have an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
The Company plans to release April 2007 sales information on May 8, 2007.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation on Reported Results
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share for the quarter, primarily driven by the stronger Euro and British Pound.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the first quarter 2007, net income was $762.4 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.62. For the first quarter 2006, net income was $625.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.49. The 2006 results included income from continuing operations of $573.4 million or $0.45 per share, and $51.9 million or $0.04 per share of income from discontinued operations related to Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle). The 2006 results also included impairment and other charges of $59.1 million after tax or $0.05 per share primarily related to strategic actions taken to enhance overall profitability and improve returns.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 22.4 million shares of its stock for $1.0 billion.
 
Table of Contents
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends for McDonald's restaurants. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all McDonald's restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS*
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS  McDONALD'S RESTAURANTS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Impairment and Other Charges, Net
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating Income, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
Income Taxes
 
Discontinued Operations
 
In first quarter 2006, Chipotle completed an IPO of 6.1 million shares resulting in a tax-free gain to McDonald's of $32.0 million to reflect an increase in the carrying value of the Company's investment as a result of Chipotle selling shares in the public offering. Concurrent with the IPO, McDonald's sold 3.0 million Chipotle shares, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of $61.4 million and an additional gain of $13.6 million after tax. In addition, Chipotle's results of operations for the first quarter 2006 were $6.3 million after tax.
Accounting Changes
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Conversion of Certain Markets to Developmental License
As previously announced, we identified about 2,300 restaurants to be transitioned to a developmental license. Generally, under a developmental license, a local entrepreneur owns the business, including controlling the real estate, and uses his/her capital and local knowledge to build the Brand and optimize sales and profitability over the long term. Under this arrangement, the Company collects a royalty, which varies by market, based on a percent of sales, but does not invest any capital.
Consistent with this strategy, the Company has agreed to sell its existing operations in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization led by Woods Staton, who has been a valued member of the McDonald's System for more than 20 years. The Company refers to these markets, which comprise nearly 1,600 restaurants, as "Latam". The sale of Latam is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including final documentation of the licensing arrangement and receipt of regulatory approvals.
Based on approval by the Company's Board of Directors, which occurred on April 17, 2007, the Company concluded Latam was "held for sale" as of that date in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144, . As a result, the Company will record an impairment charge of approximately $1.6 billion in the second quarter of 2007, substantially all of which will be noncash. The charge includes approximately $800 million for the difference between the net book value of the Latam business and the estimated $700 million in cash proceeds to be received at closing (subject to working capital adjustments), less costs of disposal. The charge also includes historical foreign currency translation losses of approximately $825 million recorded in shareholders' equity. As a result of meeting the "held for sale" criteria, the Company will cease recording depreciation expense with respect to Latam effective April 17, 2007. In connection with the sale, the Company has agreed to indemnify the buyers for certain tax and other claims.
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets"
In connection with the sale of Latam, the buyers will enter into a 20-year master franchise agreement that will require the buyers, among other obligations, (i) to pay monthly royalties commencing at a rate of approximately 5% of gross sales of the restaurants in these markets; (ii) to commit to adding approximately 150 new McDonald's restaurants over the first three years and pay an initial franchise fee for each new restaurant opened; and (iii) to commit to specified annual capital expenditures for existing restaurants. The Company expects to complete the sale and licensing transaction within the next few months and, upon completion, may record an adjustment to the impairment charge.
Based on 2006 results for Latam, the annualized consolidated financial statement impact of this transaction is expected to consist of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. By far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Our plan to reduce our ownership of restaurants may be difficult to achieve for many reasons, and the change in ownership mix may not affect our results as we now expect. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate, as well as our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand and may adversely affect our results.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
We developed the Plan to Win to address the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations.
Our plans call for a reduction in Company-operated restaurants by franchising them or entering into developmental license agreements, including our planned transaction in Latin America. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has significantly increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock. These factors include some over which we have no control, such as general market conditions and governmental actions or reports about economic activity that may have a market-moving impact, regardless of whether the action or activity directly relates to our business. Actions or reports by U.S. authorities are of special import since the United States is our largest segment and our principal trading market. Trading activity in our common stock (whether in the cash or derivative markets) also affects prices and volatility. In addition to reflecting investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity can include significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, as well as both sales and purchases resulting from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald's may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Finally, our stock price can be affected not only by operating actions we take, but also by non-operating initiatives, such as our plans to reduce shares outstanding through repurchases or increases in our dividend rate.
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes), terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events (such as the potential spread of avian flu) can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the McDonald's System and our results and prospects in the affected markets. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



