FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080610152621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
1
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 9, 2008, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys May and year-to-date 2008 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 7.7% in May and 7.0% year-to-date.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants increased 16.0% in May, or 9.1% in constant currencies.
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "We're committed to providing our customers with compelling value, unique menu variety and unparalleled convenience.  Our steadfast focus on the customer experience and our alignment behind the Plan to Win continue to deliver positive results worldwide.
   
 U.S. comparable sales rose 4.3% in May, on top of a strong increase last year. McDonalds robust breakfast line-up, new menu items, including the recently launched Southern Style Chicken biscuit and sandwich, and emphasis on everyday affordability continue to bring more customers to McDonalds.
   
 Momentum continued in Europe as comparable sales increased 9.6% for the month led by the U.K., France and Russia.  The ongoing appeal of locally relevant contributed to this months results.
   
premium products, classic menu favorites and value options available across Europe
 Comparable sales for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa were up 9.7% in May driven primarily by strong performance in Australia and many other markets. Throughout the segment, branded value offerings, breakfast and extended operating hours are giving customers more reasons to visit McDonalds.
   
 McDonalds expects the effective tax rate for the second quarter and full year to be approximately 29% to 31%.
   
.
 
  1
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release second quarter results on July 23, 2008.
   
 
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
   
 
 
2 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
3
 
 
 


