FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080422081240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 22, 2008, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's first quarter 2008 results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibit, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the first quarter, fueled by global comparable sales.
"We delivered strong first quarter results, driven by comparable sales and guest count increases across all geographic segments and outstanding international operating performance," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "During the quarter, we welcomed more guests into our restaurants around the world  serving 2.5 million more customers per day compared with the same period in the prior year  and grew operating income by 24%. These results are a clear indication that our Plan to Win continues to work."
McDonald's reported the following first quarter highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
McDonald's first quarter performance reflects the power of the Company's global restaurant operations. For the quarter, Europe and Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa both delivered double-digit revenue and operating income growth. Europe's revenues rose 23% (11% in constant currencies) during the quarter to nearly $2.4 billion, fueled by an 11.1% comparable sales increase  the highest in the segment's history. Europe's results reflect broad-based strength throughout the segment, led by France, the U.K. and Germany. For the month of April, Europe's comparable sales are expected to be in the range of 5.5% to 6.5%, reflecting the impact of the change in timing of the Easter holiday from April in 2007 to March in 2008.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales rose 9.4%, boosting the segment's quarterly revenues by 24% (16% in constant currencies) to over $1 billion. Strong performance in Australia, China and most other markets contributed to these results. Comparable sales for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa remain strong and are expected to increase 6.5% to 7.5% for the month of April.
McDonald's U.S. delivered solid quarterly results with comparable sales up 2.9% and operating income increasing 5%. The strategies of everyday affordability, menu variety and convenience enabled the U.S. to build market share during the quarter. While comparable sales for March were slightly negative, April comparable sales are expected to improve to 2% to 2.5%. In the current environment, McDonald's remains focused on what's most important  the customer. The Company will continue to provide a relevant restaurant experience that resonates with customers and leverages the strength of our 3-tiered menu.
Skinner said, "McDonald's ongoing financial performance is a testament to the strength of our business model and the effectiveness of the Plan to Win. We run our business for the long-term with sound strategies to deliver sustained profitable growth for our system and our shareholders. During the first quarter, we continued to strengthen shareholder returns by returning nearly $2.5 billion through dividends and share repurchases combined.
"Last week, the McDonald's System gathered together for our biennial Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention. The energy and alignment that I experienced during our meeting reinforced my optimism in McDonald's. I am confident that our proven Plan to Win business drivers will continue to deliver shareholder value into the future."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed, excluding the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include road construction, reimaging or remodeling, and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
The number of weekdays, weekend days and timing of holidays can impact our reported comparable sales. In first quarter 2008, the Company benefited from this , which consisted of one additional trading day (a Friday) compared with first quarter 2007, due to 2008 being a leap year.
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:30 a.m. Central Time on April 22, 2008. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
The Company plans to release April 2008 sales information on May 8, 2008.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share for the quarter, primarily driven by the stronger Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the first quarter 2008, net income was $946.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.81. For the first quarter 2007, net income was $762.4 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.62. The 2007 results included income from continuing operations of $766.5 million or $0.63 per share, and a loss of $4.1 million from discontinued operations related to Boston Market, which was sold in August 2007.
During the first quarter, the Company repurchased 37.1 million shares of its stock for $2.0 billion. As previously announced, the Company's Board of Directors decided that dividends declared will be paid on a quarterly basis, at the Board's discretion. During the first quarter 2008, the Company paid a dividend of $0.375 per share or $426.4 million.
Conversion of Certain Markets to Developmental License
In August 2007, the Company completed the sale of its businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization. The Company refers to these markets, which total about 1,600 restaurants, as "Latam". Under a developmental license, a local licensee owns the business, including the real estate, and uses his/her capital and local knowledge to build the McDonald's Brand and optimize sales and profitability over the long term. Under this arrangement, the Company collects a royalty, which varies by market, based on a percent of sales, but does not invest any capital. As a result of the Latam transaction, the revenues generated from these markets were less than in the prior year.
The buyers of the Company's operations in Latam have entered into a 20-year master franchise agreement that requires the buyers, among other obligations, to pay monthly royalties commencing at a rate of approximately 5% of gross sales of the restaurants in these markets, substantially consistent with market rates for similar license arrangements.
 
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales for the quarter benefited from an extra day due to leap year.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates along with franchised and affiliated sales for the quarter. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company, by franchisees or by affiliates. While sales by franchisees and affiliates are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised and affiliated revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the first quarter 2008 and 2007 was 26.1% and 22.3%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Discontinued Operations
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. By far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand and may adversely affect our results.
These risks can have an impact both in the near-and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations.
In recent years, we have reduced the number of Company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by franchising Company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following:
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the McDonald's System and our results and prospects in the affected markets. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



