FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080211140759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 8, 2008, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's January 2008 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
 
McDonald's Continues to Deliver Strong Global Results  January Comparable Sales Rise 5.7%
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 5.7% for the month of January. Systemwide sales for worldwide restaurants increased 13.4% in January, or 7.1% in constant currencies.
"We continue to drive our business with an unwavering commitment to our customers," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Consumers are busier than ever, and McDonald's is their ideal choice for quick, convenient and affordable meals."
U.S. comparable sales rose 1.9% in January due to the ongoing strength of the Company's breakfast business combined with the everyday appeal of McDonald's Dollar Menu.
Momentum continued in Europe as positive comparable sales in every market contributed to an 8.2% increase in January. France, Germany and the U.K. led Europe's performance. McDonald's unique premium and value products continue to give customers even more reasons to visit our restaurants.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, January comparable sales increased 7.8% as locally relevant menu options and extended operating hours drove strong performance in Australia, China and many other markets.
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release February sales on March 10, 2008.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.mcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.



