FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080909164010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
   
see
 
 
 
1 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 9, 2008, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys August and year-to-date 2008 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
 
 
  3
 
 
 
 
 
                       
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 8.5% in August.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants rose 14.1% in August, or 10.0% in constant currencies.
McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "Were connecting with customers worldwide by providing a convenient, affordable and relevant restaurant experience.  This ongoing commitment to customers continues to drive our momentum in every area of the world."
U.S. comparable sales rose 4.5% in August driven by McDonalds popular breakfast menu, the Olympic-themed Southern Style Chicken Sandwich and Biscuit promotion and everyday affordability with a special focus on beverages.
In Europe, strong performance in the U.K., France, Germany and nearly all other markets contributed to comparable sales increasing 11.6%.  Menu variety complemented with value and relevant marketing benefited the regions performance.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, comparable sales rose 10.0% due to the continuing momentum in a majority of markets including Australia, Japan and China.  Extended hours and Olympic-related marketing encompassing local menu choice attracted more customers to our restaurants.
 
 
 
 
                                   
* Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa  
   
   
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
Ralph Alvarez, McDonalds Chief Operating Officer, will speak at the 38 Annual Bank of America Investment Conference on September 16, 2008 at 8 a.m., Pacific Time.  This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
th
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results on October 22, 2008.
 
 
 
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


