FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080128081406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On January 28, 2008, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's fourth quarter and 2007 year-end results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibit, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong operating results for the fourth quarter and year, fueled by strong comparable sales.
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner commented, "McDonald's consolidated performance continues to reflect our enduring profitable growth with comparable sales up 6.8% for the year  one of our strongest increases since the initiation of our Plan to Win. We continue to drive our business by linking consumer insights to our strategies of convenience, branded affordability and innovative menu offerings."
McDonald's reported the following fourth quarter highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Full year 2007 highlights included:
 
 
 
Jim Skinner continued, "For the quarter, the U.S. business generated solid comparable sales growth of 3.3% and increased operating income by 6% by staying in-tune with growing consumer demand around breakfast, beverages, and everyday value. While severe winter weather throughout the month and softer consumer spending resulted in December U.S. comparable sales being flat, we remain confident in our U.S. business. Our strategic initiatives, anchored by McDonald's three-tiered menu of premium, core and Dollar Menu options, position us well to grow sales and build customer loyalty for 2008 and beyond.
"For the fourth quarter, Europe generated double-digit revenue and operating income growth, driven by positive comparable sales in every market as a result of unique marketing and locally appealing menu offerings. Europe's momentum reflects the success of our strategies as we continue to upgrade the customer experience and build brand transparency.
"Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa delivered outstanding quarterly results driven by an 11.4% comparable sales increase  marking the segment's highest annual comparable result in more than 15 years. Strong results in most markets, led by China, Japan and Australia contributed to the segment's robust performance for the year.
 
"We remain committed to maintaining fiscal discipline and enhancing shareholder value. During 2007, we raised our cash return to shareholders target to $15 billion to $17 billion for 2007 through 2009. McDonald's delivered $5.7 billion of this commitment during 2007 through our combined dividends and share repurchases.
"Separately, given the substantial increase to the Company's dividend over the last several years, McDonald's Board of Directors has decided that beginning in 2008, dividends declared will be paid on a quarterly basis. On January 24, 2008, McDonald's Board of Directors declared a dividend for the first quarter of 2008 of $0.375 per share payable on March 17, 2008 to shareholders of record on March 3, 2008. The Board of Directors will continue to review the Company's dividend rate annually each fall.
"For 2008, we remain focused on delivering a great McDonald's experience to each of the nearly 56 million customers we serve every day. I am confident that our strong global brand, resilient business model and proven Plan to Win strategy will continue to deliver long-term value for our System and our shareholders. I am optimistic about McDonald's outlook for 2008."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
n/m Not meaningful
In August 2007, the Company sold its investment in Boston Market, and in 2006, disposed of its investment in Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle) via public stock offerings in the first and second quarters and a tax-free exchange for McDonald's common stock in the fourth quarter. As a result of the dispositions, both Boston Market's and Chipotle's results of operations and transaction gains are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
In 2007, the Company completed the sale of its businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization. The Company refers to these markets as "Latam".
 
 
2007
 
 
 
2006
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed, excluding the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be closed temporarily include road construction, reimaging or remodeling, and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends.
Comparable sales
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on January 28, 2008. A link to the live webcast will be available at . We will also have an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
The Company plans to release January 2008 sales information on February 8, 2008.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to McDonald's Corporation's results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Key HighlightsConsolidated
In August 2007, the Company sold its investment in Boston Market, and in 2006, disposed of its investment in Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle) via public stock offerings in the first and second quarters and a tax-free exchange for McDonald's common stock in the fourth quarter. As a result of the dispositions, both Boston Market's and Chipotle's results of operations and transaction gains are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the reported results shown above, consolidated results for the year are presented below, excluding the impact of the Company's sale of its businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela and 13 other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization. The Company refers to these markets as "Latam". While the Company has previously converted certain other markets to a developmental license structure, management believes the Latam transaction and the associated charge are not indicative of ongoing operations due to the size and scope of the transaction. Management believes that the adjusted operating results better reflect the underlying business trends relevant to the periods presented.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the key consolidated highlights for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 to the highlights excluding the impact of the Latam transaction.
 
 
 
 
2007
 
 
2006
 
 
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the fourth quarter 2007, net income was $1,273.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.06. These results included a net tax benefit of $396.4 million or $0.33 per share related to the completion of an IRS examination of the Company's 2003-2004 U.S. tax returns and tax developments in the quarter related to foreign operations, partly offset by the impact of a tax law change in Canada.
 
For the full year 2007, net income was $2,395.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.98. Income from continuing operations was $2,335.0 million or $1.93 per share, which included $1,578.6 million or $1.30 per share of net expense related to the Latam transaction. This reflects an impairment charge of $1.32 per share, partly offset by a $0.02 per share benefit due to eliminating depreciation on the assets in Latam in mid-April 2007 in accordance with accounting rules. In addition, full year 2007 results included a net tax benefit of $288.4 million or $0.24 per share related to the completion of an IRS examination, partly offset by the impact of a tax law change in Canada. Income from discontinued operations was $60.1 million or $0.05 per share.
For the fourth quarter 2006, net income was $1,241.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.00. Income from continuing operations was $751.7 million or $0.61 per share and income from discontinued operations was $489.8 million or $0.40 per share, primarily due to the gain on the disposition of Chipotle.
For the full year 2006, net income was $3,544.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $2.83 per share. Income from continuing operations was $2,866.1 million or $2.29 per share, which included $0.08 per share of impairment and other charges primarily related to strategic actions taken to enhance overall profitability and improve returns, as well as $0.01 per share of net incremental income tax expense primarily related to the impact of a tax law change in Canada. Income from discontinued operations was $678.1 million or $0.54 per share.
During the fourth quarter, the Company repurchased 23.3 million shares of its stock for over $1.3 billion, bringing the total repurchases for full year 2007 to 77.1 million shares or $3.9 billion.
Conversion of Certain Markets to Developmental License
In the third quarter 2007, the Company completed the sale of Latam to a developmental licensee organization. Under a developmental license, a local licensee owns the business, including the real estate, and uses his/her capital and local knowledge to build the McDonald's Brand and optimize sales and profitability over the long term. Under this arrangement, the Company collects a royalty, which varies by market, based on a percent of sales, but does not invest any capital.
Based on approval by the Company's Board of Directors on April 17, 2007, the Company concluded Latam was "held for sale" as of that date in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144, . As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.6 billion in the second quarter of 2007, substantially all of which was noncash. Subsequent to the closing of the transaction, the Company recorded an additional $53 million of charges in connection with the transaction. The total charges for the full year included $896 million for the difference between the net book value of the Latam business and approximately $675 million in cash proceeds received. This loss in value was primarily due to a historically difficult economic environment coupled with volatility experienced in many of the markets included in this transaction. The charges also included historical foreign currency translation losses of $769 million recorded in shareholders' equity. The Company has recorded a tax benefit of $62 million in connection with this transaction. As a result of meeting the "held for sale" criteria, the Company ceased recording depreciation expense with respect to Latam effective April 17, 2007. In connection with the sale, the Company has agreed to indemnify the buyers for certain tax and other claims, certain of which are reflected as liabilities on McDonald's consolidated balance sheet.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets
The buyers of the Company's operations in Latam have entered into a 20-year master franchise agreement that requires the buyers, among other obligations, (i) to pay monthly royalties commencing at a rate of approximately 5% of gross sales of the restaurants in these markets, substantially consistent with market rates for similar license arrangements; (ii) to commit to adding approximately 150 new McDonald's restaurants over the first three years and pay an initial franchise fee for each new restaurant opened; and (iii) to commit to specified annual capital expenditures for existing restaurants.
 
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because it believes they better represent the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share for the quarter and full year, primarily driven by the stronger Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar.
 
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees primarily include rent and/or royalties that are based on a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, including those operated by the Company, franchisees and affiliates, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
FRANCHISED AND AFFILIATED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
 
Impairment and Other Charges, Net
IMPAIRMENT AND OTHER CHARGES (CREDITS), NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the full year 2007 and 2006 was 17.0% and 21.2%, respectively. Impairment and other charges (credits) negatively impacted the 2007 and 2006 combined operating margin by 7.4 percentage points and 0.7 percentage points, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating Income, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinued Operations
 
 
In first quarter 2006, Chipotle completed an IPO of 6.1 million shares resulting in a tax-free gain to McDonald's of $32.0 million to reflect an increase in the carrying value of the Company's investment as a result of Chipotle selling shares in the public offering. Concurrent with the IPO, McDonald's sold 3.0 million Chipotle shares, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of $61.4 million and an additional gain of $13.6 million after tax. In second quarter 2006, McDonald's sold an additional 4.5 million Chipotle shares, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of $267.4 million and a gain of $127.8 million after tax, while still retaining majority ownership. In fourth quarter 2006, the Company completely separated from Chipotle through a noncash, tax-free exchange of its remaining Chipotle shares for its common stock. McDonald's accepted 18.6 million shares of its common stock in exchange for the 16.5 million shares of Chipotle class B common stock held by McDonald's and recorded a tax-free gain of $479.6 million. Chipotle's net income for fourth quarter 2006 and full year 2006 was $0.7 million and $18.2 million, respectively.
Accounting Changes
 
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. By far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand and may adversely affect our results.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
We developed the Plan to Win to address the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations.
In recent years, we have reduced the number of Company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by franchising Company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following:
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are:
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the McDonald's System and our results and prospects in the affected markets. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



