FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080508150246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
appropriate
(General Instruction A.2 below):
see
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 1
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 8, 2008, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys April and year-to-date 2008 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
4 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 5.0% in April and 6.8% year-to-date.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants increased 13.7% in April, or 6.5% in constant currencies.
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "We're listening to our customers and giving them what they expect from McDonald's  menu variety, enhanced convenience and everyday value.  This ongoing customer focus and execution through our Plan to Win is driving the sustained momentum of our global business."
   
 U.S. comparable sales rose 2.0% for the month as McDonalds breakfast menu, new products and compelling value attracted more customers into our restaurants.
   
 In Europe, April comparable sales increased 6.3% led by France, the U.K., Russia and Germany.  The launch of the premium M beef burger in France and Germany, and the popular Monopoly promotion in the U.K. contributed to this growth.
   
 The 7.8% increase in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa was fueled by strong comparable sales growth in Australia, China and most other markets, partly offset by Japan.  Local menu relevance and enhanced convenience through extended hours contributed to the regions April result.
   
 
  1
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live on May 22, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on   An archived replay and podcast of the meeting will be available for a limited time.
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 Denis Hennequin, President  Europe and Don Thompson, President  USA will speak at the Goldman Sachs Lodging, Gaming, Restaurant and Leisure Conference on June 2, 2008 at 8 a.m. Eastern Time.  This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release May sales on June 9, 2008.
   
 
2 
 
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.
   
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


