FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20081110162125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
  1
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 10, 2008, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys October and year-to-date 2008 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
                                          
      
   
   
   
   
   
   

 
 
EXHIBIT 99
 
McDonalds October comparable sales increases by segment were as follows:
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 8.2% in October.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants increased 5.4% for the month, or 9.9% in constant currencies.
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, McDonalds strong October sales show that we are delivering what customers count on from McDonald's   choice, variety and high-quality food and beverages at affordable prices."
   
 U.S. comparable sales increased 5.3%in October due to the enduring appeal of McDonalds breakfast, recent product introductions such as Southern Style Chicken, compelling value throughout the menu and the continued popularity of McDonalds Monopoly game.
   
 
 In Europe, strong performance in the U.K., France and Russia and positive results in nearly all other markets drove a comparable sales increase of 9.8%.  Unique menu items and promotions as well as everyday value options continue to resonate with customers and drive results.
   
 Comparable sales were up 11.5%in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, driven by robust sales growth in Australia and broad-based strength throughout the segment.  Locally-relevant menu choices, branded affordability, and extended hours fueled the segments October sales.
   
 
 
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release November sales on December 8, 2008.
   
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
  
   
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


