FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080811170953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
1
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 8, 2008, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys July and year-to-date 2008 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
         
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
                      
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
GLOBAL COMPARABLE SALES UP 8.0% IN JULY
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 8.0% in July.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants rose 15.9% in July, or 9.5% in constant currencies.
McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "We continue to strengthen our relevance by offering great variety and value in convenient and modern restaurants.  This unrelenting focus on enhancing the customer experience is driving our ongoing momentum."
In the U.S., our strategic focus on breakfast, chicken and beverages, while advertising the classic Big Mac sandwich, fueled Julys 6.7% comparable sales increase.
Continued strong comparable sales in France, U.K., and Russia and positive performance in most other markets contributed to Europes 7.6% increase.  During July, locally-relevant summer offerings resonated with customers and complemented our premium sandwiches and salads, classic menu favorites and everyday affordable products.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa rose 7.2% driven by strong performance in Australia and China and many other countries.  Extended hours, menu variety and branded affordability continue to position McDonalds as a preferred restaurant choice.
In addition, double-digit comparable sales in Latin America benefited the months overall performance.
 
1 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds tentatively plans to release August sales on September 9, 2008.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
2
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
3 
 


