FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080312170724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 10, 2008, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's February and year-to-date 2008 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 11.7% for the month and 8.6% for year-to-date February. Systemwide sales for McDonald's worldwide restaurants increased 19.9% in February, or 13.2% in constant currencies. McDonald's February sales results reflect strong performance across each business segment, as well as a benefit of about 4 percentage points from an extra day due to leap year.
"Our focus on our customers around the world continues to deliver results and drive McDonald's global business," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Through the Plan to Win, we're committed to providing our customers the menu variety they want, with the convenience and value they expect from McDonald's."
February comparable sales increased 8.3% in the U.S. as McDonald's market-leading breakfast, Premium Roast Coffee and everyday value offerings continue to fuel performance.
In Europe, strong results in the U.K., France, Germany and Russia drove comparable sales up 15.4% for the month. Europe's combination of premium beef and chicken menu selections, balanced with everyday affordability, continues to drive results.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, February comparable sales increased 10.9%. Strong results in Australia, China, Japan and many other markets drove the segment's overall performance as customers continue to enjoy locally relevant and affordable menu choices throughout the day.
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
Jan Fields, McDonald's USA Chief Operating Officer, will speak at 8:30 a.m. (Pacific Time) at the JP Morgan Gaming, Lodging and Restaurants Conference on March 27, 2008. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at www.investor.mcdonalds.com.
McDonald's tentatively plans to release first quarter results on April 22, 2008.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 30,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates. Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports.



