FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20080926161510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
    
 
1 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 25, 2008, McDonalds Corporation issued an Investor Release announcing that on September 25, 2008 the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend.  A copy of the Investor Release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
                                           
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Board of Directors today declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock payable on December 15, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 1.  This represents a 33% increase, bringing the quarterly dividend payout to more than $550 million.
 Jim Skinner, McDonalds Chief Executive Officer, said, "Todays substantial dividend increase is yet another indication of the strength and momentum of our global business.  By focusing on our customers and staying disciplined in our execution, we continue to drive sales, profits and ultimately cash provided by operations, which increased by more than $700 million in the first half of this year.  We are confident in our ability to invest in key growth opportunities and maintain a strong credit rating even as we return a significant amount of cash to shareholders."
   
 Under its three-year target, McDonalds has returned $5.1 billion year-to-date 2008 and $5.7 billion in 2007 to shareholders via a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
   
 McDonalds has raised its dividend each and every year since paying its first dividend in 1976.  The new quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share is equivalent to $2.00 per share annually  double the amount paid in 2006.
   
Upcoming Communications
 A McDonalds U.S. owner/operator will participate in a panel discussion at the RBC Capital Markets Consumer Conference on October 2, 2008 at 9:00 a.m., Eastern Time.  This panel discussion will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
 
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 22, 2008 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 
 


