FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20091223085607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e)           On December 18, 2009, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) and Ralph Alvarez, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, entered into an agreement in connection with Mr. Alvarezs retirement (the Agreement).  The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.  As reported on the Companys current report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2009, Mr. Alvarez had notified the Company on November 30, 2009 that he would retire from these offices effective December 31, 2009.
Under the Agreement, Mr. Alvarez has agreed not to compete with the Company for two years following his retirement date and to other customary restrictive covenants (the Restrictive Covenants).  In addition, he has agreed that the exercisability of certain of his stock options will be delayed, as described in further detail below.   (According to their original terms, these stock options would have become immediately exercisable on retirement.)
The Agreement provides that, in exchange for Mr. Alvarezs agreement to be bound by the Restrictive Covenants and the delay of exercisability of his stock options, Mr. Alvarezs restricted stock unit (RSU) award granted on September 18, 2006, which was subject to forfeiture under the terms of the grant upon his retirement before the originally scheduled settlement date (September 18, 2011), will instead be settled on September 18, 2011 on a pro rated basis reflecting the number of months in the original vesting period that Mr. Alvarez will have worked through his retirement.
Vesting of Mr. Alvarezs other outstanding RSU awards, and of his outstanding stock option awards, is governed by the terms of the applicable equity incentive plans and the terms of the grants (including applicable performance criteria).  Mr. Alvarezs RSU awards will be settled on their original settlement dates on a pro rated basis reflecting the number of months in the original vesting period that Mr. Alvarez will have worked through his retirement. In addition, Mr. Alvarez will forfeit certain stock options and the stock options that are not forfeited must be exercised by December 31, 2012 or earlier, depending on the terms of the specific grant.  As noted above, Mr. Alvarez has agreed that his options that are not forfeited will continue to become exercisable pursuant to the original vesting schedule as if Mr. Alvarez had remained an employee of the Company, instead of becoming immediately exercisable on his retirement as provided under their original terms.
In the event that Mr. Alvarez breaches any of the Restrictive Covenants he will not receive any further payments and will forfeit his then outstanding stock options and RSUs.
Mr. Alvarez will receive other compensation and benefits, including his annual bonus under the Companys 2009 Target Incentive Plan and his long-term cash bonus under the Companys 2007-2009 Cash Performance Unit Plan, all in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans (including applicable performance criteria).
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99           Letter Agreement between Ralph Alvarez and the Company dated December 18, 2009
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Ralph Alvarez
to:
The following states the terms of our Agreement regarding your retirement from McDonalds.  This Agreement is effective as of December 18, 2009.  Except as the context may otherwise require, as used in this Agreement, references to  include, as applicable, McDonalds Corporation, McDonalds USA, LLC, all subsidiary and related entities and companies.
McDonalds
 
 
You will retire and terminate your employment with McDonalds effective as of the close of business on December 31, 2009 (the ).
Retirement Date
 
You hereby resign, effective as of your Retirement Date, all positions, titles, duties, authorities and responsibilities with, arising out of or relating to your employment with McDonalds and its affiliates, and you agree to execute all additional documents and take such further steps as may be required to effectuate such resignation, and McDonalds accepts your resignation.
 
Your Retirement Date will be the date of your employment termination for purposes of all McDonalds benefits programs, including but not limited to the Profit Sharing & Savings Plan, long term incentive plans and McDonalds insurance plans.
 
 
Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, your benefits will be administered consistent with the applicable plan documents and based upon your Retirement Date.
 
 
All payments, benefits and other compensation described in, or paid pursuant to, this Agreement, will be made subject to any withholdings required by local, state and federal law and any other required deductions
.
 
 
On June 1, 2010 (the six-month anniversary of your separation from service under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), provided that you have signed and have not revoked or violated any of the terms of this Agreement, you will receive the sum of $153,846, representing the equivalent eight weeks base pay for your sabbatical.
1
 
You are eligible for a 2009 Target Incentive Plan () bonus payment consistent with the terms of the McDonalds Corporation Target Incentive Plan, based on McDonalds actual performance against the approved performance thresholds as determined by the Compensation Committee, and on an individual performance factor of 100%.  Your TIP payment will be payable on the normal TIP payment cycle or about March 1, 2010.
TIP
 
You are eligible for a payout under the Cash Performance Unit Plan () consistent with the administrative guidelines for the 2007-2009 CPUP awards and based on McDonalds performance as determined by the Compensation Committee at the end of the 2007-2009 CPUP performance cycle.  Your CPUP payment will be payable on the normal CPUP payment cycle in 2010.
CPUP
 
Your benefits under any McDonalds retirement and/or deferred compensation plans in which you participate will be administered in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the applicable plans, including your elections thereunder.
 
 
In accordance with the financial counseling program in which you participate, McDonalds agrees to reimburse you for financial counseling services rendered to you in 2009 up to the full amount of your unused 2009 benefits, subject to your submission of documentation of the applicable expenses.  All such documentation must be submitted in accordance with and at the times required under the terms of the program, and McDonalds will reimburse you no later than December 31, 2010.
 
 
You will be entitled to elect to continue your coverage under the medical and dental benefit programs of McDonalds or its subsidiaries that you participate in at the time of your termination for 18 months (or longer if required by law).  This is known as COBRA coverage.  It will be your responsibility to complete your enrollment paperwork and pay the appropriate premiums in a timely manner.  The cost will be 102% of both the employee and the employer premium costs under the applicable plans.  If you fail to pay your COBRA premium, your coverage will terminate as of the last day of the month for which your last premium was paid.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if COBRA coverage is no longer required to be provided under the federal laws governing COBRA, all payments for COBRA coverage under the Plan will also end.  Further information about COBRA coverage will be provided by the plan administrator.  Upon the expiration of your COBRA coverage, you may elect McDonalds Retiree Medical benefits at your cost, provided you meet and satisfy all of the requirements of McDonalds Retiree Medical Plan, as in effect from time to time, including not being covered by another group medical plan.  In any event, Retiree Medical Benefits will be available only for as long as McDonalds maintains such a plan for retirees, and McDonalds reserves the right to amend or terminate the Retiree Medical Plan at any time, in its sole discretion.
 
You have the option to purchase your company car in accordance with the company car program in which you are a participant.  The option price of your car will be determined by McDonalds Fleet Management
 
 
2
 
department.  Should you wish to purchase your company car and the purchase transaction has not been completed by your Retirement Date, you acknowledge and understand that you must return both sets of keys to McDonalds Fleet Management representative and park the company car at McDonalds Corporate office in Oak Brook until the purchase transaction is completed.  All insurance on the company car and you as a driver ceases as of your Retirement Date.
 
 
All stock option and restricted stock unit () awards held by you at your Retirement Date will be treated in accordance with the terms of the McDonalds stock incentive plan pursuant to which each respective award was granted (collectively, the ), except as otherwise provided in this Section and elsewhere in this Agreement.  You and McDonalds agree that your RSU award granted on September 18, 2006, which according to its original terms would have been forfeited upon your retirement, will not be forfeited, but will be settled (on a pro rata basis reflecting the number of months in the original vesting period that you will have worked through the Retirement Date) on the originally scheduled settlement date of September 18, 2011.  In exchange for the foregoing treatment of such RSU award and other good and valuable consideration, you agree that exercisability of your stock options (which would have been accelerated to the Retirement Date under the terms of the Equity Plans) will not be accelerated, and that those stock options will instead continue to become exercisable pursuant to the original schedule as if you had remained an employee of McDonalds.  Further details regarding the treatment of your stock options and RSUs are set forth in Sections 3.2 and 3.3 below and in Exhibit A.  
RSU
Equity Plans
You will be subject to McDonalds Window Rule until the first day of the window that opens immediately subsequent to your Retirement Date.
 
Your stock options that have vested in accordance with the terms of the Equity Plans (including the provisions thereunder relating to retirement) but have not yet become exercisable will continue to become exercisable pursuant to the original vesting schedule as if you remained an employee (or on the date of your death, if earlier).  The chart in indicates when your options become exercisable and the last day to exercise each of your option grants.  Your stock options that have not vested in accordance with the terms of the Equity Plans (including the provisions thereunder relating to retirement) and are not listed on Exhibit A will be forfeited and cancelled as of your Retirement Date.
Exhibit A
 
Your outstanding RSUs will settle on the dates listed in the chart below (or on the date of your death, if sooner) based on McDonalds actual achievement of the applicable performance conditions, provided that you will receive a pro rata portion of the RSUs based on the number of months worked up to the Retirement Date during the applicable vesting period.  The foregoing will supersede any provisions to the contrary in the original terms of the RSUs granted to you on September 18, 2006.  This pro rata amount will be paid out in accordance with the terms of the applicable Equity Plan and prospectus, in the form of shares of McDonalds stock (or cash in McDonalds sole discretion).
3
 
 
 
 
 
You acknowledge that McDonalds is engaged in a highly competitive business and has a compelling business need and interest in preventing release or disclosure of its Confidential Information as defined in this Agreement.  Moreover, you acknowledge that McDonalds has highly valuable, long-term and near permanent relationships with certain customers, suppliers, franchisees, employees and service organizations which McDonalds has a legitimate interest in protecting and that you, by virtue of your position with McDonalds, have and will continue to have access to these customers, suppliers,  franchisees, employees and service organizations as well as the Confidential Information.  Accordingly, you agree that during your employment and for a period of two years after your Retirement Date, you will not either directly or indirectly, alone or in conjunction with any other party or entity, in the United States, perform any services, work or consulting for a Specified Competitor (as defined below).   are listed in Exhibit B hereto and in each case include their respective subsidiaries, affiliates and successors.
Specified Competitors
In addition, you agree that during your employment and for two years after your Retirement Date you will not, either directly or indirectly, alone or in conjunction with any other party or entity:
(i) Promote, sell or create any product sold by a Specified Competitor;
(ii) Provide marketing services, consultation or any other services to enhance the sales of a Specified Competitor; or
(iii) Use the McDonalds name or any other brand name of McDonalds, or the fact of your affiliation or former affiliation with McDonalds, in any manner that aids or benefits, or is intended to aid or benefit, a Competing Business (as defined below) or a Specified Competitor.
A  means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, venture or other entity (and any branches, offices or operations thereof) that is a material and direct competitor of McDonalds in any country in the world or in the United States by virtue of selling, manufacturing, processing or promoting any product that is substantially similar to, competes with, or is intended to compete with, replace or duplicate in the market any product that was sold or under development by McDonalds during the five years preceding the date of execution of this Agreement, or with respect to which you have had specific knowledge and involvement.
Competing Business
It will not be considered a violation of this Section if you engage in any of the following:
 
 
4
(x) The performance of services for and on behalf of an investment banking or commercial banking, private equity, auditing or consulting firm, so long as you are not personally engaged in rendering services to or soliciting business of a Competing Business or a Specified Competitor and you do not disclose or otherwise use any Confidential Information of McDonalds in connection with the performance of such services; or
(y) Being the record or beneficial owner of up to one percent of the outstanding voting securities of any publicly traded entity.
During such two year period, you agree to notify the Chief Human Resources Officer in advance of your engaging in any activity described in this Section with any person or entity involved in the informal eating out category (other than a Specified Competitor) that you believe is not a Competing Business.
 
 
For two years after your Retirement Date, you will not, directly or indirectly:
(i) solicit for employment, hire, or engage in a business venture (as a partner or otherwise) with, any salaried employee of McDonalds or former salaried employee of McDonalds whose employment with McDonalds terminated within the six months preceding the date on which the solicitation, hiring or commencement of the business venture occurs, whether employed or formerly employed at the Corporate office or in the field (including the restaurants); or
(ii) induce any vendor, supplier, franchisee, consultant or independent contractor or partner of McDonalds to reduce or curtail its relationship with McDonalds.
If at any time during this two year period you contemplate extending an offer of employment, either directly or indirectly, to a McDonalds salaried employee or former salaried employee, you agree to contact the Chief Human Resources Officer, for his prior approval.
 
You acknowledge that during your employment you have formulated, established and otherwise had access to and knowledge of McDonalds trade secrets, other intellectual property and confidential information used or contemplated for use in McDonalds business, including but not limited to information about its strategy, prospects and financial affairs, customers, franchisees, suppliers, manufacturers, employees, supply chain management, pricing, advertising, sales, marketing, expansion and development plans, new store sites, technical items and equipment, processes, methods, techniques, systems, formulae, patents, models, devices, compilations and other information of whatever nature that gives to McDonalds an opportunity to obtain an advantage over competitors who do not know or use such information (all such information and trade secrets, ).  You further acknowledge that the preservation of a continuing business relationship between McDonalds and its customers, franchisees and suppliers is of critical importance to the continued business success of McDonalds and that it is the policy of McDonalds to safeguard as confidential the identity and special needs of certain customers, franchisees, suppliers and key employees.  Therefore, you agree that use of such Confidential Information for your own account or on behalf of any person, corporation, or entity other than McDonalds would constitute improper use of such Confidential Information.
Confidential Information
 
 
5
 
In view of the foregoing, until any item of Confidential Information becomes public through no act or omission by you or wrongful act or omission of any other person, you will not, directly or indirectly disclose to any person or entity or use for any purpose whatsoever such item of Confidential Information.
 
In addition, you will not, directly or indirectly, release names of any McDonalds salaried employees to recruiters, headhunters or employment agencies.
 
 
You will immediately return to McDonalds all documents, manuals, office equipment, credit cards and other things belonging to McDonalds which you have borrowed or which you possess or control and all records (including electronic data), documents and other material of whatever nature that contain Confidential Information.
 
 
You will not disrupt, interfere with or cause any disturbance to McDonalds business or, directly or indirectly, by any means or in any medium, and whether in your own name, anonymously, using a pseudonym or otherwise, do, say, write, confirm or otherwise communicate or publish to any person or entity, by word, action, omission or otherwise, anything that would disparage or cause damage to the reputation, brand, name, business, products and services of McDonalds or any of its current and former directors, officers, agents, franchisees and employees () in their capacities as such.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, you further agree that, for three years following your Retirement Date, you will not, directly or indirectly, make any public disclosures or publish or contribute to any articles or books about McDonalds, its business or any McDonalds Related Person or grant an interview to any representative of the public media, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of McDonalds.
McDonalds Related Persons
 
You agree not to make, directly or indirectly, any public statement that is inconsistent with McDonalds press release regarding your retirement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C.
 
You will cooperate with McDonalds in any pending or future investigations, charges, complaints, lawsuits or other claims in the event that McDonalds determines that you may have information or may be a witness relating to the investigation, charge, complaint, lawsuit or other claim.
 
 
You acknowledge and agree that, in exchange for your agreement to be bound by the covenants set forth in this Section 4, you are receiving payments and benefits under this Agreement (including the treatment of your RSU award granted on September 18, 2006 as set forth in Section 3 hereof), the adequacy and receipt of which you acknowledge as consideration.
 
6
 
 
In exchange for the payments and benefits set forth in this Agreement, the adequacy and receipt of which you acknowledge as consideration, you are waiving and releasing all claims and causes of action you have or may have, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, accrued or unaccrued, fixed or contingent, against McDonalds arising from or relating to acts or omissions on or before the date you sign this Agreement.  For purposes of this Section 5, references to McDonalds include McDonalds Corporation, McDonalds USA, LLC, all subsidiary and related entities and companies, all of their respective current and former directors, officers, agents and employees, insurers and attorneys, all of their respective employee benefit plans and arrangements and the administrators, trustees and other fiduciaries thereof, and all successors and assigns of all of the foregoing.
The claims you are releasing include, but are not limited to, any and all claims and causes of action that McDonalds: (a) has discriminated against you on the basis of age (or any other claim or right arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C.  621 et seq. (ADEA)), race, color, sex (including sexual harassment), national origin, ancestry, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, veteran status, military status, citizenship status, genetic information, source of income, entitlement to benefits, or any other status protected by local, state or federal laws, constitutions, regulations, ordinances or executive orders; (b) has violated its personnel policies, handbooks or any covenant of good faith and fair dealing or breached any written or implied contract of employment between you and McDonalds; (c) has violated public policy or common law, including but not limited to claims for: personal injury; invasion of privacy; retaliatory or wrongful discharge; whistle blowing; negligent hiring, retention or supervision; defamation; intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress and/or mental anguish; intentional interference with contract; negligence; detrimental reliance; loss of consortium to you or any member of your family; and/or promissory estoppel; (d) is in any way obligated for any reason to pay you damages, expenses, litigation costs (including attorneys fees), wages, bonuses, commissions, disability, retirement or welfare benefits, vacation pay and sick pay, compensatory damages, penalties, liquidated damages, punitive damages, other payments, and/or interest; (e) has any obligations or owes any compensation or payments to you in connection with any ideas, information, inventions, processes, procedures, systems, methods, intellectual property or other materials that you may have developed, produced, created, designed, modified, improved, enhanced or revised during your employment with McDonalds or disclosed to McDonalds, including without limitation any trademarks, service marks, trade dress, copyrights, patents and/or trade secrets; and (f) has violated any other federal, state or local law, including but not limited to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (Title VII), the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended (42 U.S.C.  1981), the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1981a), the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended (ADA), the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, the Family Medical and Leave Act, as amended, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), and the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act), the Illinois Human Rights Act, the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, the Illinois Equal Wage Act, the Illinois Equal Pay Act of 2003, the Illinois Minimum Wage Law, the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (Illinois WARN Act), the anti-retaliation provisions of the Illinois Workers Compensation Act, and the Illinois Whistleblower Act.  YOU UNDERSTAND BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU ARE GIVING UP ALL CLAIMS AGAINST McDONALDS.
The claims you are releasing include, but are not limited to, the continuing or future effects of any act or omission by McDonalds through the date of this Agreement, even if you are first affected or are first aware of the effect after the date you sign this Agreement.  Without limiting the generality of the
 
 
7
 
foregoing, the claims you are releasing include any claim that any future nonpayment or difference in amount, timing or duration of wages, salaries, bonuses, benefits (such as under the Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, Long Term Incentive Plans, Insurance Plans, TIP Plan, stock option and restricted stock unit plans, and Cash Performance Unit Plan) or other compensation is discriminatory under the ADEA, Title VII, the ADA and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, all as amended or modified in operation by the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, and all such claims under all federal, state and local law, as heretofore or hereafter amended or modified in operation.
You have given up all claims against McDonalds and do not have a basis to sue McDonalds.  If, despite, this, you sue McDonalds in any forum or proceeding, McDonalds reserves its rights to seek any legal or equitable remedy available, including as set forth in Section 6 herein. Excepted from this release and this promise is a good faith challenge by you to the validity of the release provision of this Agreement under the ADEA.  Also excluded from this Agreement are any claims or rights which cannot be waived by law, including the right to file a charge of discrimination with an administrative agency and the right to participate in an investigation or proceeding conducted by an administrative agency, and claims to the payments and benefits specifically set forth in this Agreement.  You are waiving, however, your right to any monetary recovery or other relief in connection with such a charge filed by you or anyone else.  You hereby assign to McDonalds all your right, title and interest in any monetary recovery or other relief obtained in any proceeding.
Except for the benefits provided for in Sections 2 and 3 herein, you are releasing and waiving all claims on behalf of yourself and on behalf of your spouse, family members, beneficiaries under any employee benefit plans or arrangements, attorneys, agents, executors, representatives, guardians ad litem, heirs, successors and assigns.
 
You have participated in negotiating the terms of this Agreement, have read it and understand it fully.  You acknowledge that you have been advised by this Agreement to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement.  You further acknowledge that you are now executing this Agreement voluntarily with the express intention of making a binding legal Agreement, including giving up all claims against McDonalds and waiving any relief not specifically set forth in this document.
that you have been given at least 21
days to consider the terms of this Agreement, that you have been able to use this period, or as much of this period as you desire, and
 
You have not applied for and you are not eligible for, short-term disability, long-term disability, Workers Compensation, or family and medical leave under applicable federal, state and local law, and you will not apply or be eligible for them.  You agree you have received all salary and benefits due to you to date, have taken any family and medical leave to which you are entitled, and have not been retaliated against because you have sought any salary, benefits or leave.  All pay earned by you, including vacation pay, has been paid or is included in the amounts referred to in Section 2 above.
 
 
This Agreement may be revoked by delivering a written notice of revocation to the
Chief Human Resources Officer, McDonalds Corporation, 2915 Jorie Boulevard, Dept. 146, Oak Brook, Illinois  60523, no later than the close of business on the seventh day after you execute it.  Any revocation must be accompanied by repayment of all consideration already tendered under the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
8
 
If you breach this Agreement, McDonalds will be entitled to recover the entire value of any consideration you have received hereunder, other than (i) your 2009 TIP bonus payment as provided for in Section 2.2 and (ii) your 2007-2009 CPUP payment as provided for in Section 2.3, and McDonalds will be relieved of any obligation to pay further consideration.  For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing shall not apply to your stock options that have or will have already become exercisable as of your Retirement Date.
 
Without limiting the foregoing, you also acknowledge that strict compliance with your representations, warranties and covenants contained in Sections 4 and 5 (together, the ) are of the essence in this Agreement and that any breach thereof will constitute a material breach of this Agreement.  In that event, in addition to the foregoing remedies:
Restrictive Covenants
 
(ii) any outstanding and unexercised stock option awards listed in Exhibit A and any outstanding unpaid RSUs listed in Section 3 will be immediately forfeited; and
 
(iii) you will immediately account for and pay over to McDonalds, the compensation, earnings, profits, monies, accruals or other benefits derived or received by you as a result of any breach of any such Restrictive Covenant.
 
The parties acknowledge that the foregoing remedies for breach of a Restrictive Covenant are not a penalty, but an agreed upon remedy resulting from a failure of consideration upon a breach of Restrictive Covenants.
 
Further, and without limiting the foregoing, you agree that if McDonalds discovers that during your employment with McDonalds you committed any act or acts involving fraud or illegality, any outstanding and unexercised stock option awards listed in Exhibit A and any outstanding unpaid RSUs listed in Section 3 will be immediately forfeited.
 
Any remedies provided under this Agreement are not exclusive of any other rights or remedies McDonalds may have under applicable law.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6.3, the parties acknowledge and agree that any violation of the Restrictive Covenants would cause McDonalds irreparable injury for which damages may not be adequate, and that McDonalds will be entitled to any remedy as may be available, whether judicially or extra-judicially, including an injunction, restraining order, specific performance or such other equitable relief (without the requirement to post bond) to enforce your obligations or prevent such breach or any further breach.  If McDonalds institutes any action or proceeding to enforce any Restrictive Covenant, you hereby waive the claim or defense that McDonalds has an adequate remedy at law, and you agree not to assert in any such claim or defense.  The foregoing will not prejudice McDonalds right to exercise any other right or remedy hereunder or under applicable law.
 
All disputes, claims, and causes of action relating to or in connection with your employment or separation from employment, including but not limited to claims of discrimination or unlawful termination, other
 
 
9
 
than disputes, claims and causes of action referred to in Section 6.2, will be resolved solely and exclusively by final, binding and confidential arbitration before a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association applicable to employment disputes.  The parties understand and agree that this Section constitutes a waiver of their right to a jury trial on these claims.  In any such arbitration, the waiver, release and covenant not to sue contained in this Agreement will be fully applicable and enforceable.
 
 
You will pay all costs and attorneys fees incurred by McDonalds in enforcing this Agreement should you violate any provision of it, without in any way limiting McDonalds right to recover other remedies.
Should any provision, or any portion of any provision, of this Agreement be found void or unenforceable by any court of law or arbitrator, the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect.
You and McDonalds agree that this Agreement is to be interpreted and enforced in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware (without regard to the choice of law provisions thereof).
This Agreement contains the full agreement between you and McDonalds and completely supersedes any prior written or oral agreements or representations concerning the subject matter hereof.  Any oral representation or modification concerning this Agreement will be of no force or effect.
This Agreement will be binding on you, your heirs and successors in interest by operation of law.  You may not assign this Agreement without McDonalds prior written consent, and any such assignment made without McDonalds consent will be null and void for all purposes.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together will constitute one and the same agreement.
The headings and section references in this Agreement are for convenience only and will not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
                                                                                          December 18, 2009
/s/ Ralph Alvarez                           
 Ralph Alvarez
 
                                                                                      December 18, 2009
/s/                            
Richard Floersch
McDonalds Corporation
Richard Floersch
Executive Vice President,
Chief Human Resources Officer
 
10
 
 
 
 
11
 
Burger King
 
Checkers
 
Chick-fil-A
 
Chipotle
 
Culvers
 
Dominos Pizza
 
Dunkin Donuts
 
In-N-Out Burger
 
Jamba Juice
 
Jollibee
 
Qdoba Mexican Grill
 
Panera Bread
 
Papa Johns
 
Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits
 
Potbelly Sandwich Works
 
Quick
 
Quiznos Subs
 
7-Eleven
 
Sonic
 
Starbucks Coffee
 
Subway
 
Tim Hortons
 
Wendys Arbys Group (Wendys/Arbys)
 
Yum! Brands (Pizza Hut/Taco Bell/KFC and Long John Silvers)
 
 
12
 
                                                                                   
 
                                                                                
McDonalds Chief Operating Officer Ralph Alvarez to Retire
Oak Brook, Illinois -- McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner announced today that Ralph Alvarez has decided to retire as President and Chief Operating Officer of the company for health-related reasons.
After more than 30 years in the restaurant industry, the past 15 with this great brand McDonalds, Ive decided to retire, Alvarez said. Seven orthopedic surgeries and years of chronic pain culminating in two total knee replacements in the past six months have made me realize its time to move on.
Alvarez retirement is effective December 31, 2009.  He has also decided to resign as a member of the McDonalds Board of Directors.
I know this was a difficult decision, but it was the right one for Ralph and his family, Skinner said.  On behalf of the entire McDonalds system, I want to commend Ralph for his many contributions to our business.  McDonalds has benefited greatly from Ralphs leadership and commitment to operational excellence.
Speaking for the McDonalds Board, Chairman Andrew J. McKenna, said, Ralph has been a strong executive and member of our Board. His industry experience and insights have served us well.
As a result of this change, the companys Area of the World executive leadership team, responsible for the operation of McDonalds 32,000 restaurants worldwide, will now report directly to CEO Jim Skinner.
Alvarez, 55, joined McDonalds in 1994.  He has held a variety of leadership roles throughout his McDonalds career, including President of McDonalds North America and President of McDonalds USA.  Prior to that, he served as Chief Operations Officer and President of the Central Division, both with McDonalds USA.  Before joining the U.S. business, he was President of McDonalds Mexico.
McDonalds is the leading global food-serve organization with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80 percent of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
 
#######
 
 
13
 


