FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090123143721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Approval of Payout Structure for 2009 Target Incentive Plan (TIP) Awards
 
On January 21, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of McDonalds Corporation (the Company) approved the payout structure for TIP for 2009, as well as the parameters for determining final awards.  For employees at the level of Senior Vice President and above, these awards are granted subject to the terms of the Companys Target Incentive Plan, which was filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K, dated January 23, 2008.
 
The target 2009 TIP awards for the Companys principal executive officer, principal financial officer and named executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Companys most recent proxy statement are as shown in the table below.
 
 
TIP payouts are determined by a combination of a team performance factor and an individual performance factor.
 
For Messrs. Skinner, Alvarez and Bensen, the team factor measures corporate performance.  For Messrs. Hennequin and Fenton, the team factor is based on a combination of corporate performance and the performance of McDonalds Europe and McDonalds APMEA, respectively, reflecting their responsibilities.
 
The team factor is determined primarily by growth in operating income over the Companys 2008 operating income, measured in constant currency.  The named executive officers listed above, like all other employees, are generally not eligible to receive a TIP payout if the Company does not achieve growth in operating income in 2009.  Operating income is measured on a consolidated or geographic business unit level, as applicable.
 
Individual performance is measured against various qualitative performance factors, including setting and achieving goals that are in line with the Companys strategic focus.
 
The maximum TIP award that any of the named executive officers can earn in 2009 is 250% of the target award.
 
 
2 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 22, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release announcing that on January 22, 2009 the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend. A copy of the Investor Release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
         
 
 
 
3 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
                                     
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend today of $0.50 cents per share of common stock payable on March 16, 2009 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2009.
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds plans to release fourth quarter results on January 26, 2009 and will host an investor webcast at 10:30 a.m. Central Time.  A link to the live webcast will be available at .  There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 31,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
 
 


