FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090511144903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 8, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys April and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
                  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Exhibit No. 99 Investor Release of McDonalds Corporation issued May 8, 2009:
   
   McDonalds Momentum Continues;
   
   
   
   April Global Comparable Sales Up 6.9%
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 6.9% in April, marking the 72nd consecutive monthly increase.  Comparable sales increases by segment were as follows:
 
Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants declined 1.0% for the month, but increased 8.9% in constant currencies.
"By continuing to provide the menu variety and value consumers want with the fast, friendly service they expect from McDonalds, weve strengthened our connection with customers and driven comparable sales growth for six consecutive years," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.
In the U.S., the ongoing appeal of McDonalds core menu, beverages including the new McCaf coffees and chicken Snack Wraps contributed to April comparable sales rising 6.1%.
Europe delivered strong comparable sales growth of 8.4% for the month, partly due to the benefit of the Easter holiday shift.  Leading Europes performance was the U.K., where customers embraced our tiered menu offerings, as well as the popular Monopoly promotion.  France, Russia and Germany also posted positive comparable sales.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, April comparable sales increased 6.5% driven by Australia and Japan, partly offset by China.  Locally relevant menu choices, everyday affordability and extended hours contributed to Aprils performance.
 
 
 
 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live on May 27, 2009 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on   An archived replay and podcast of the meeting will be available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner and Chief Operating Officer Ralph Alvarez will speak at the Sanford C. Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference on May 28, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Their remarks will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonalds tentatively plans to release May sales on June 8, 2009.
 
2 
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
3
 
 


