FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090811120754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 10, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys July and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3
 
 
 
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 4.3% in July and by segment increased as follows:
"We remain aligned behind our customer-focused Plan to Win, which continues to drive positive global comparable sales as we satisfy customers demands for menu variety, value and convenience," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.
U.S. comparable sales rose 2.6% in July on top of strong prior year growth primarily due to new products, including McCaf espresso-based coffees, and the continued strength of McDonalds core menu.
In Europe, strong sales growth in France, the U.K. and many other markets drove comparable sales up 7.2%.  McDonalds tiered-menu approach complemented by popular local summertime offerings drove Europes results.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 2.1% due to Australias ongoing momentum, partly offset by China.  A focus on relevant menu choices, value and longer operating hours contributed to sales in this area of the world.
Systemwide sales declined 0.3% due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation, but were up 6.2% in constant currencies.
 
 1
 
   


