FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090310094455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 9, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys February and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
                                      
     
   
   
   
   
   

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonalds February comparable sales results were as follows:
 
 
 
Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants declined 4.6% for the month, but increased 3.2% in constant currencies.
"McDonalds continues to deliver what customers want  everyday affordable prices and quality menu choices," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "We serve approximately 58 million customers around the world every day, demonstrating the ongoing appeal of McDonalds unique combination of convenience, value and variety."
February comparable sales in the U.S. increased 2.8% due to the strength of the chicken line-up, the core menu, particularly the Quarter Pounder, as well as beverages and our market-leading breakfast.  U.S. results for February reflect about 4 percentage points of negative impact due to the leap year in 2008.
In Europe, comparable sales decreased 0.2% for the month, reflecting a negative calendar shift of approximately 4.2 percentage points due to leap year.  Excluding this calendar shift, comparable sales increased 4.0% as Europes unique premium menu offerings and compelling value contributed to sales growth, led by the U.K. and Russia, partly offset by Germany.
 
 
 
 
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, February comparable sales increased 0.7%, reflecting a negative calendar shift of approximately 3.4 percentage points due to leap year.  Excluding this impact, the segments comparable sales were up 4.1% driven by strong results in Australia and Japan, partly offset by China.  Chinas weak February comparable sales
were due in part to the celebration of Chinese New Year in January 2009 versus February in 2008.
External factors including unprecedented volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs will continue to pressure revenue and margin comparisons in the first quarter.  Weaker foreign currencies, including a significant decline in the Eastern European currencies where McDonalds primarily operates Company-owned restaurants, are expected to negatively impact results.  If foreign currency rates remain at current levels, currency translation is expected to negatively impact first quarter revenues by at least $600 million and earnings by $0.07 to $0.09 per share.  In addition, as previously stated, commodity cost pressures are expected to have a greater impact during the first half of the year.
 
First quarter 2009 results will include an after-tax nonoperating gain of approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share resulting from the sale of McDonalds minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, the Companys last non-McDonalds venture.  McDonalds effective tax rate for the first quarter is expected to be 28% to 29%, and the Companys annual tax rate is expected to be 29% to 31%.
.
Jim Skinner concluded, "We remain confident in the fundamental strength of the McDonalds business.  We have the right strategies in place to grow the business for the long-term and we have the operating experience to manage through the current environment."
                                    * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
2 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communication
     McDonalds tentatively plans to release first quarter results before the market opens on April 22, 2009 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on www.investor.mcdonalds.com.
     McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with approximately 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


