FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20091110125955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 9, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys October and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
3 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 3.3% in October.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
"Our customers are at the heart of everything we do, and McDonalds is delivering what they want," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "Our everyday, predictable value, outstanding menu and convenience continue to make us the preferred choice for a growing number of customers."
Against a strong prior year performance, U.S. comparable sales were relatively flat in October but continued to outpace the overall quick-service restaurant industry.  Customers ongoing appetite for the Dollar Menu, premium Angus burgers and McCaf espresso-based coffees supported the months results.
In Europe, comparable sales rose 6.4% for the month, driven by positive results in the U.K., France and Germany.  Throughout Europe, premium menu options, iconic core products and an expanding line of mid-tier offerings  all at a good value  contributed to October sales.
The 4.7% increase in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africas October comparable sales was fueled by Japan and Australia, partly offset by China.  Across the segment, core menu, value, convenience and breakfast drove the regions performance.
Systemwide sales rose 10.3%, or 5.2% in constant currencies, for the month.
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
                              * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communication
McDonalds will webcast its November 12, 2009 investor meeting.  Please access for more information on presentation times and links to the live webcast.  There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
McDonalds tentatively plans to release November Sales on December 8, 2009.
 
 
2
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 


