FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090422080524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 22, 2009, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's first quarter 2009 results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced solid operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009, driven by strong global comparable sales.
McDonald's reported the following first quarter highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"McDonald's continues to deliver a relevant restaurant experience that provides consumers with a broad range of quality menu choices, affordable prices and unmatched convenience," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Our underlying business performance remains strong. In constant currencies, first quarter results reflect higher revenues, operating income and earnings per share over the prior year."
McDonald's U.S. posted a first quarter operating income increase of 6% fueled by strong comparable sales. The U.S. business continues to gain market share as consumers visit McDonald's more often for the classic taste of core products like the Quarter Pounder, convenient locations and operating hours, and compelling value across the menu. Increased sales of chicken, breakfast and beverages contributed to results.
Led by the U.K., France and Russia, Europe delivered solid first quarter comparable sales despite the shift in timing of Easter-related school and business holidays from March 2008 to April 2009. McDonald's continues to gain market share as tiered-pricing menus, seasonal food events and day-part expansion in the morning and late night hours connect with customers. Europe's first quarter operating income increased 1% in constant currencies. Europe's locally relevant strategies continue to drive performance, and the segment is expected to strengthen as the year progresses.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) reported strong first quarter comparable sales driven by performance in Australia and Japan, partly offset by weaker sales in China. In constant currencies, APMEA's first quarter operating income was up a strong 11%, driven by everyday affordability, menu choice and convenience.
Jim Skinner added, "McDonald's continues to demonstrate its ongoing commitment to driving shareholder value. Through first quarter 2009, the Company returned $12.9 billion toward the $15 billion to $17 billion targeted cash return to shareholders by the end of 2009. Given our strong balance sheet and operating performance, we fully expect to meet the target this year."
 
Jim Skinner concluded, "McDonald's business remains strong, despite the economic concerns around the world. Our well-known value proposition and unparalleled convenience continue to resonate with customers. In fact, the momentum has continued with April comparable sales trending at least as strong or better than first quarter sales in each area of the world. I remain confident that we have the right strategies in place to grow the business and provide value into the future."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, including those operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact our comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can also impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on April 22, 2009. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
Pete Bensen, Chief Financial Officer, will speak at the Barclays Retail and Restaurants Conference on April 29, 2009 at 8 a.m. Eastern Time. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
The Company plans to release April 2009 sales information on May 8, 2009.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changing foreign currencies affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter as the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most currencies of foreign markets in which we operate, primarily the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. The weaker Russian Ruble also had a negative impact on operating results.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the first quarter 2009, net income was $979.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.87. Results benefited by a $47.4 million, or $0.04 per share, after tax gain on the sale of the Company's minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox). Results were negatively impacted by $0.08 per share due to the effect of foreign currency translation. For the first quarter 2008, net income was $946.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.81.
During the first quarter 2009, the Company repurchased 14.6 million shares of its stock for $823.2 million and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share or $553.4 million.
 
Table of Contents
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
The Company continues to optimize its restaurant ownership mix, cash flow and returns through its refranchising strategy. The shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants is expected to negatively impact consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where we receive rent and/or royalties. In addition, the Company expects a decrease in Company-operated margin dollars and an increase in franchised margin dollars. The impact on margin percentages will vary based on sales and operating costs of refranchised restaurants.
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, including those operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the first quarter 2009 and 2008 was 27.6% and 26.1%, respectively. In constant currencies, the 2009 combined operating margin increased 80 basis points.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Gain on Sale of Investment
In February 2009, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in Redbox to Coinstar, Inc., the majority owner, for a value of at least $134 million. In connection with the sale, the Company received initial consideration valued at $51.6 million consisting of 1.5 million shares of Coinstar common stock at an agreed to value of $41.6 million and $10 million in cash with the balance of the purchase price deferred. In connection with the transaction, the Company recognized a nonoperating pretax gain of $76.5 million in the first quarter 2009. In April, the Company sold all of its holdings in Coinstar common stock.
The deferred consideration, which is payable in cash and/or Coinstar common stock, at Coinstar's option subject to certain limitations, will escalate based on the timing of payment and could increase the purchase price to a maximum of $151 million. The deferred consideration is due in part by July 31, 2009 and in full by October 30, 2009, but can be paid earlier by Coinstar. Additional nonoperating gain associated with the transaction will be recorded as the deferred consideration escalates and consideration is received, and will reflect any realized or unrealized changes in the value of Coinstar common shares.
 
Table of Contents
Income Taxes
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. We also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Certain macroeconomic events, such as the current uncertain economic conditions and increased unemployment levels, could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment and consumer spending, which could also adversely affect us. Whether we can manage these risks effectively depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations.
In recent years, we have reduced the number of Company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by refranchising Company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. Whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, will be affected by the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



