FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090909160528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 9, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys August and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
                 
 
 
 
 
3
 
                                       
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
4
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales rose 2.2% in August and by segment performance was as follows:
 "Our commitment to providing customers with menu variety, value and convenience is delivering sustained global comparable sales growth despite the current economic environment.  Our System remains aligned behind providing great service to each of the 58 million customers who visit us daily," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "We will continue to drive the business forward and build market share by executing our customer-centric Plan to Win."
   
 U.S. comparable sales increased 1.7% for the month.  The new premium Angus Third Pounders and McCaf espresso-based coffees complemented the ongoing appeal of McDonalds core menu and contributed to this increase.
   
 In Europe, the Companys tiered menu approach, which includes locally relevant limited-time food offerings, and popular marketing tie-ins helped drive comparable sales up 3.5% on top of very strong prior year growth.  Leading this performance were the U.K., France and Russia.
   
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa declined 0.5% in August, lapping a robust 2008 increase.  The segments performance was negatively impacted by China, Japan and several other markets, mostly offset by strong sustained momentum in Australia.
   
 Systemwide sales rose 1.1%, or 4.1% in constant currencies, for the month.
   
 
 1
 
   


