FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090413155001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 9, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") increased the size of the Board by one to a total of 14 directors, and on the same date elected Miles D. White to the Board as a member of the class of 2010. The press release announcing the election of Mr. White to the Company's Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
McDonald's Corporation today announced that Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Abbott, has been elected to McDonald's Board of Directors.
"Miles' business knowledge and his keen insights on sound governance and strategic planning make him a valuable addition to McDonald's Board of Directors," said Andrew McKenna, Chairman of the Board.
McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "Miles is one of the most respected CEOs in America, and our Board will benefit greatly from his experience, his creative energy, and his international perspective."
White, 54, has led Abbott, the global healthcare company, since 1999. He joined Abbott in 1984. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of Northwestern University and of the Field Museum of Chicago.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with approximately 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.mcdonalds.com



