FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20091209162054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 8, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys November and year-to-date 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
3 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 0.7% in November.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
      "Customers continue to find what they want at McDonalds  menu variety, convenient locations and compelling value," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "We remain focused on growing market share with a disciplined pricing strategy to provide great tasting food at an affordable price."
      In November, U.S. comparable sales decreased slightly amidst the sluggish economy but remained among the best in the industry.  McDonalds combination of core, value and premium menu options continues to resonate with consumers and supported the months results.
     In Europe, comparable sales rose for the month driven by the U.K. and France, somewhat offset by performance in Germany.  Europes continued focus on fourth-tier menu development, premium product innovation and daypart expansion contributed to Novembers results.
     November comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) declined against the robust 13.2% performance delivered in the prior year.  Australia remained strong but was more than offset by Japan and continued weakness in China.  Ongoing emphasis on the core menu, branded affordability, breakfast and convenience continue to be key drivers of the McDonalds experience in APMEA.
     Systemwide sales rose 10.1%, or 2.3% in constant currencies, for the month.
 
 
1
     In addition, in 4Q09 the Company expects to record approximately $85 million of after tax income, a roughly $0.08 per share benefit, primarily due to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction.
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
 
 
2
 
Upcoming Communication
 
     McDonalds tentatively plans to release fourth quarter results before the market opens on January 22, 2010 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
     McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
# # #
 


