FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090925114508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 24, 2009, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release announcing that on September 24, 2009 the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend.  The Company also announced its intention to discontinue the secondary listing of its common stock from the Chicago Stock Exchange, effective October 30, 2009.  A copy of the Investor Release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3
 
 
 
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
McDONALDS RAISES QUARTERLY CASH DIVIDEND BY 10%
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Board of Directors today declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.55 per share of common stock payable on December 15, 2009 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 1, 2009.  This represents a 10% increase over the Companys previous quarterly dividend rate and brings the total quarterly dividend payout to about $600 million.
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner said, "So far in 2009 weve returned nearly $4.0 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, bringing total cash returned since the beginning of 2007 to about $15.5 billion.  With todays dividend increase, we expect to end the year near the high end of our three-year, $15 billion to $17 billion total cash return target."
   
  Skinner continued, "This achievement reflects the success of our better, not just bigger strategy, which has helped drive sales, profits and, ultimately, cash from operations.  Going forward, our philosophy on our use of capital remains unchanged.  Our first priority is to reinvest to grow our business and enhance shareholder value.  After these investment opportunities, we expect to return all of our free cash flow over the long term through dividends and share repurchases  while maintaining a strong financial foundation.  Todays dividend increase underscores our confidence in the long-term strength of our business and ongoing commitment to returning cash to shareholders."
   
 McDonalds has raised its dividend each and every year since paying its first dividend in 1976.  The new quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share is equivalent to $2.20 per share annually  quadruple the amount paid in 2004.
   
 
 
 
Other Information
 Today, McDonald's Corporation announced that it has notified the Chicago Stock Exchange of its intention to delist its common stock from that exchange, effective October 30, 2009.  The Company's decision to discontinue its secondary listing on the Chicago Stock Exchange was due to the low trading volume of its common stock on that exchange.  The Company will continue to maintain its primary listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
   
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 22, 2009 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
   
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   


