FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20090210082930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 9, 2009, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys January 2009 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Exhibit No. 99 Investor Release of McDonalds Corporation issued February 9, 2009:
   
   McDonalds Reports Global Comparable Sales Up 7.1% in January
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
UP 7.1% IN JANUARY
 
McDonalds January comparable sales increases by segment were as follows:
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation tht global comparable sales increased 7.1% in January.  Systemwide sales for McDonalds worldwide restaurants were up 2.6% for the month, or 9.1% in constant currencies.
announced today
a
2009 is off to a good start for McDonalds as our Plan to Win is working in every area of the world, said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  McDonalds continues to appeal to customers as we offer high quality, affordable meal options and unparalleled convenience.
In the U.S., comparable sales rose 5.4% in January.  Value across the menu along with the popularity of McDonalds core menu and breakfast drove results.
In Europe, the U.K., France, and Russia led Januarys 7.1% comparable sales increase.  Across Europe, the combination of premium menu offerings, classic favorites and everyday affordability continue to deliver results.
January comparable sales were up 10.2% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa due to strong sales growth in Australia, China and many other countries.  Locally relevant chicken and beef choices, convenient operating hours and successful Chinese New Year promotions contributed to Januarys performance.
Jim Skinner added, We are pleased with comparable sales performance around the world.  For the month of February, its important to note that comparable sales will be negatively impacted by about 4 percentage points as prior year results included one extra day due to leap year.  This compares with a calendar shift benefit of about 2 percentage points in January.
 
 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communication
McDonalds tentatively plans to release February sales on March 9, 2009.
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with nearly 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  More than 75% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees and affiliates.  Please visit our website at www.mcdonalds.com to learn more about the Company.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 


