FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100122080412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 22, 2010, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the fourth quarter and 2009 year-end results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009, driven by global comparable sales growth.
"McDonald's 2009 results reflect the broad-based strength of our global business," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Skinner. "Our in-demand food and beverages, unparalleled convenience and superior value at every level of our menu enabled us to serve 60 million customers per day during 2009, up 2 million per day over the prior year. In addition, McDonald's profitability increased as we marked our sixth consecutive year of positive comparable sales in every geographic segment and generated higher global revenues, operating income and earnings per share in constant currencies  all tremendous accomplishments given the tough global economy."
Full year 2009 highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
Throughout 2009, McDonald's U.S. sales outpaced the overall quick-service restaurant industry and drove market share increases. In the fourth quarter, U.S. operating income rose as consumers enjoyed core menu favorites, everyday value offerings and new premium products, including McCaf espresso-based coffees and the Angus Third Pounder, and commodity costs eased.
McDonald's Europe delivered strong comparable sales for the fourth quarter against robust prior year results. The U.K., France and Russia led the segment's operating income growth for the quarter. Emphasis on fourth-tier menu development, premium product innovation, daypart expansion and restaurant reimaging continued to provide an appealing restaurant experience and drive market share gains.
In the fourth quarter, Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) delivered impressive double-digit operating income growth fueled by results in Australia, expansion in China, and operating efficiencies and lower commodity costs in many markets. Strong execution in convenience, value, core menu and breakfast continued to drive APMEA's performance.
Jim Skinner concluded, "As we begin 2010, McDonald's January global comparable sales trend remains positive We will continue our fiscal discipline by investing prudently and returning excess cash to shareholders. I am confident that the collective efforts of our franchisees, suppliers and employees will continue to drive value for all stakeholders."
.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
In addition, the following items impacted the growth in diluted earnings per share for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009 compared with 2008:
For the quarter ended December 31, 2009:
 
This item positively impacted the growth in diluted earnings per share for the quarter by 10 percentage points.
For the year ended December 31, 2009:
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008:
 
In the aggregate, these items positively impacted the growth in diluted earnings per share for the year by 1 percentage point (no impact on the growth rate in constant currencies).
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact our comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on January 22, 2010. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.
The Company plans to release January 2010 sales information on February 9, 2010.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter, primarily driven by the Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the year, primarily driven by the Euro, British Pound, Russian Ruble, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009, net income was $1,216.8 million and $4,551.0 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $1.11 and $4.11, respectively. Both periods benefited by after tax income of $87.0 million or $0.08 per share primarily due to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. Results for the year also benefited by an after tax gain of $58.8 million or $0.05 per share related to the sale of the Company's minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox). In addition, results included a benefit of $0.07 per share for the quarter and a cost of $0.15 per share for the year due to the effect of foreign currency translation.
 
Table of Contents
For the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008, net income was $985.3 million and $4,313.2 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $0.87 and $3.76, respectively. Results for the year benefited by an after tax gain of $109.0 million or $0.09 per share due to the sale of the Company's minority interest in Pret A Manger.
During the fourth quarter 2009, the Company repurchased 7.7 million shares of its stock for $465.1 million, bringing the total repurchases for 2009 to 50.3 million shares or $2.9 billion. During the fourth quarter 2009, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share or $593.1 million, bringing the total dividends paid for 2009 to $2.2 billion. For the full years 2007, 2008 and 2009 combined, the Company returned $16.6 billion to shareholders under its three-year, $15 billion to $17 billion total cash return plan.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The Company continues to optimize its restaurant ownership mix, cash flow and returns through its refranchising strategy. For the full years 2008 and 2009 combined, the Company refranchised about 1,100 restaurants, primarily in its major markets. The shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants negatively impacts consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where the Company receives rent and/or royalties based on a percent of sales. In addition, there is a corresponding decrease in Company-operated margin dollars and an increase in franchised margin dollars. The impact on margin percentages varies based on sales and operating costs of refranchised restaurants.
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
 
Table of Contents
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
n/m Not meaningful
Results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009 included $65.2 million of income in Other Countries & Corporate primarily related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. This benefit positively impacted the growth in total operating income by 5 percentage points for the quarter (4 percentage points in constant currencies) and 1 percentage point for the year.
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the full year 2009 and 2008 was 30.1% and 27.4%, respectively. In constant currencies, the 2009 combined operating margin increased 210 basis points.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Gain on Sale of Investment
In 2009, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in Redbox to Coinstar, Inc., the majority owner, for total consideration of $139.8 million. In connection with the sale, in February, the Company received initial consideration valued at $51.6 million consisting of 1.5 million shares of Coinstar common stock at an agreed to value of $41.6 million and $10 million in cash with the balance of the purchase price deferred. In April, the Company sold all of its holdings in the Coinstar common stock for $46.8 million. In second quarter, the Company received $78.4 million in cash from Coinstar as deferred consideration, and in third quarter, the Company received $9.8 million in cash from Coinstar as final consideration. As a result of the transaction, the Company recognized a nonoperating pretax gain of $94.9 million for the year.
In second quarter 2008, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in U.K.-based Pret A Manger. As a result of the sale, the Company received cash proceeds of $229.4 million and recognized a nonoperating pretax gain of $160.1 million.
Income Taxes
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out (IEO) segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The current economic environment has caused the IEO segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. The current economic environment has increased consumer focus on value, heightening pricing pressures across the industry, which could affect our ability to continue to grow sales despite the strength of our Brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand.
The risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win, particularly as the global economy emerges from recession.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by slowing economies, rising unemployment, declining wages, constrained credit and volatile financial markets. These conditions have significantly affected consumer spending and habits. Moreover, the timing and strength of a recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. The key factors that affect our ability to manage the impact of these conditions are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix.
Our refranchising strategy involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. When we refranchise a restaurant, it reduces consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where we receive rent and/or royalties. It also reduces Company-operated margin dollars while increasing franchised margin dollars, with the impact on margin percentages varying based on sales and operating costs of the refranchised restaurants. Our refranchising strategy can also expose us to risks, including the following:
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



