FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100216170023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
  1
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Grant of awards to certain named executive officers under the Cash Performance Unit Plan for the 2010-2012 performance cycle.
 
On February 9, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of McDonalds Corporation (the Company) adopted the 2010-2012 Cash Performance Unit Plan, or CPUP, which is summarized below.  The summary below is qualified in its entirety by the 2010-2012 CPUP plan document, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  The Committee also approved grants of awards under the 2010-2012 CPUP for the performance period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012 for the Companys principal executive officer, principal financial officer and named executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Companys most recent proxy statement and who are currently employed with the Company (together, the named executive officers).
 
The 2010-2012 CPUP operates on a three-year cycle with a cumulative payout at the end of the cycle. The final payout is determined based on the entire performance period.  Participants will not receive any payout under the CPUP until after the end of the performance period on December 31, 2012.
 
The performance measures that will be used to calculate CPUP payouts for the 2010-2012 performance cycle are:
 
 
 
Participants will not receive any payout under CPUP unless threshold levels of both performance measures are achieved.  To calculate the final payout, the amount based on the above performance measures will be adjusted by a multiplier based on the Companys cumulative total shareholder return versus the S&P 500 Index for the performance period, which may result in final payouts being increased or decreased by up to 15%.
 
Target awards for the named executive officers under the 2010-2012 CPUP are as follows:
 
The maximum final payout that each of the named executive officers can earn under the 2010-2012 CPUP is 230% of the target award.
 
Award of Restricted Stock Units
On February 10, 2010, the Committee approved grants of restricted stock units, or RSUs, under the Companys Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended (the Plan) to the named executive officers.
The RSUs cliff vest after three years, subject to a performance-based vesting condition linked to the level of compounded annual growth in diluted earnings per share, or EPS, achieved by the Company during the three-year vesting period.  The EPS target approved by the Committee for the RSUs is 6% compounded annual EPS growth.  If less than 1% compounded growth is achieved, none of the RSUs will vest. If EPS growth is at or above the 1% threshold but below the 6% target, a portion of the awards will vest in proportion to the level of EPS growth achieved.
For compensation purposes, all of the above performance measures are adjusted from the measures as reported in our financial statements.  Operating income (including operating income used to calculated ROTA) and EPS are expressed in constant currencies (excluding the effects of foreign currency translation) to more accurately reflect underlying business trends.  In addition, certain income and/or expense items that are not indicative of ongoing results may be excluded at the discretion of the Committee.
i.e.,
 
2
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
   
99.1        McDonalds Corporation 2010-2012 Cash Performance Unit Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  4
 
Exhibit 99.1                     2010-2012 Cash Performance Unit Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2010-2012
 
Section 1:
 
General
 
1.1
 
This Plan shall in all respects be interpreted and applied consistent with Section 5.1 below.
The Plan
.
 McDonalds Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company) has established this McDonalds Corporation Cash Performance Unit Plan 2010-2012 (the Plan or CPUP) effective as of February 9, 2010.  The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders and to provide Participants (as defined below) with the opportunity to earn cash long-term incentive compensation that is linked to the Companys long-term business interests.  
 
 
1.2
 
.  Employees at the level of Senior Vice President (or the equivalent level for compensation purposes) and above (Participants) are eligible for awards under this Plan.
Participants
 
Section 2:
 
Plan Design
 
2.1
 
.  The Plan has a three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2012 (Performance Period).
Performance Period
 
2.2
 
.  Each Participant shall be eligible to earn an award under the Plan (an Award).  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) or its delegee shall establish a target amount for each Participants Award, expressed as either: (a) a multiple of the Participants March 1, 2010 base salary (or the base salary on the date of promotion into an eligible position) rounded up to the nearest $5,000; or (b) a specific dollar value.
Establishment of Target CPUP Awards
 
2.3
 
.  The final amount of Awards shall be determined following the end of the Performance Period based on the Companys performance during the Performance Period as measured by the following performance measures and as determined by the Committee after the end of the Performance Period:
Performance Measures
 
 
 
 
2.4
 
Performance Targets
.  The Committee shall determine, concurrent with its approval of this Plan, (i) the threshold, target and maximum performance levels of compound annual operating income growth and ROTA for the Performance Period for Awards under the Plan and (ii) the basis on which Awards may be adjusted up or down based on TSR.
 
2.5
 
First, the Award shall be adjusted up or down from the target Award (but may not be adjusted above 200% of the target Award) based upon the Companys actual performance during the Performance Period against the compound annual operating income growth and ROTA targets previously established by the Committee.  Second, the Award shall be adjusted up or down by up to +15% or -15% based on TSR in the manner previously determined by the Committee.  Company performance must achieve threshold performance for both operating income and ROTA for there to be any CPUP payout, and in no event shall a final Award exceed 230% of the target Award.
Calculation of CPUP Awards
 Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine final Awards under the Plan for eligible Participants, based on the Participants target Award.  Final Awards shall be determined based on the Companys actual performance during the Performance Period and as specified in the following sentence, except as otherwise expressly provided in Sections 4.1 through 4.5 hereof.  
. 
 
2.6
 
.  Awards shall be paid in cash to eligible Participants, as determined by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of this Plan, after the Performance Period and no later than March 15, 2013.
Payment of Awards
 
Section 3:
 
Employment / Change in Status
 
3.1
 
In order to be eligible to receive any payout under the Plan, a Participant must be employed by the Company during the entire Performance Period, except as expressly provided to the contrary in Section 3.2 and/or Sections 4.1 through 4.4 hereof.
Employment
.  
 
3.2
 
.  Any Participant who is promoted or hired into an eligible position during the Performance Period is eligible for a pro-rated payout based on the number of days in the eligible position.  Any such Participants target Award will be calculated based on the Participants salary as of the effective date in his or her new position.
Mid-Cycle Entry
 
3.3
 
.
Change in Eligible Position
 
 
 
Section 4:
 
Termination Provisions
 
4.1
 
.  If during the Performance Period a Participants employment is terminated by reason of the Participants Retirement (as defined below), then such Participant shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the Award that would have been payable to such Participant if he or she had remained employed throughout the Performance Period, based on the number of days worked during the Performance Period.  Such Award shall be paid at the time and in the manner set forth in Section 2.6 hereof.  For purposes of this Plan, Retirement means a termination of employment any time after attaining either (i) age 60 with at least 20 years of Company service, or (ii) combined age and years of Company service equal to or greater than 70, other than a termination of employment for Cause.
Retirement
 
4.2
 
.  If during the Performance Period a Participants employment is terminated by reason of the Participants death, then such Participant shall be eligible to receive a pro-rata portion of the Award that would have been payable to such Participant if he or she had remained employed throughout the Performance Period, based on the number of days worked during the Performance Period.  Such Award shall be paid at the time and in the manner set forth in Section 2.6 hereof.
Death
 
4.3
 
.  If during the Performance Period a Participants employment is terminated by reason of the Participants Disability (as defined in McDonalds Corporation 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended), then such Participant shall, be eligible to receive a pro rata portion of the Award that would have been payable to such Participant if he or she had remained employed throughout the Performance Period, based on the number of days worked during the Performance Period.  Such Award shall be paid at the time and in the manner set forth in Section 2.6 hereof.
Disability
 
4.4
 
.  In the event of a Change of Control (as defined in McDonalds Corporation 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended) before January 1, 2013, each Participant whose employment has not terminated prior to the consummation of such Change of Control shall be entitled to receive a payment in full satisfaction of his or her opportunity under the 2010-2012 CPUP in an amount equal to: (i) the amount that would be payable to such Participant under the 2010-2012 CPUP, if the applicable performance goals were achieved at the level achieved during the portion of the period January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 that precedes the Change of Control multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the portion of the period January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 that precedes the Change of Control and the denominator of which is 1,095; provided, that the Participant shall forfeit his or her right to receive such payment if he or she experiences a termination of employment for Cause before the payment is made.  This payment shall be paid at the time and in the manner set forth in Section 2.6 hereof; provided, however, that if the Change of Control qualifies as a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of U.S. Treasury Department Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5), payment will be made within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the Change of Control.
Change of Control
 
4.5
 
.  A Participant will forfeit the Award upon termination of employment for Cause (as defined in McDonalds Corporation 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended).
Cause
 
4.6
 
.  Participants will forfeit the Award upon termination of employment for any reason other than those reasons set forth above in Sections 4.1 through 4.4, except to the extent otherwise provided pursuant to the terms of the McDonalds Corporation Severance Plan, the ERRP or a CIC Agreement (each as defined below), as applicable.
All Other Terminations
 
Section 5:
 
Miscellaneous
 
5.1
 
.  The Committee administers the Plan. The Committee shall have full and final authority, in its discretion, but subject to the express provisions of the 2009 Cash Incentive Plan in the case of Participants with respect to whom such provisions apply, to: establish the terms and conditions of Awards; determine the extent to which cash payments are actually earned pursuant to Awards and the amounts to be paid; and interpret the Plan and to make all determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  This administrative discretion specifically includes the right to modify Awards if necessary to be consistent with and avoid the imposition of tax penalties based upon Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.  The determination of the Committee on all matters relating to this Plan and all Awards shall be made in its sole discretion, and shall be conclusive and final.  No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award.
Administration of the Plan
 
5.2
 
.  Awards may be deferred only in accordance with, and subject to the terms of, the McDonalds Excess Benefit and Deferred Bonus Plan in effect at the time the deferral election is made.
Deferral
 
5.3
 
.  The Company may withhold or cause to be withheld from any or all cash payments made under the Plan such amounts as are necessary to satisfy all federal, state, local and foreign withholding tax requirements related thereto.
Withholding Taxes
 
5.4
 
. Benefits payable under the Plan to any person shall be paid directly by the Company.  The Company shall not be required to fund, or otherwise segregate assets to be used for payment of, benefits under the Plan.  Participants shall have no claim against the Company or its assets with respect to Awards under the Plan other than as unsecured general creditors
Funding
 
5.5
 
.  Awards under the Plan are intended to align the Participants long-term interests with the long-term interests of the Company.  If a Participant (i) violates a confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition, or similar restrictive covenant between the Company (or one of its subsidiaries) and such Participant or (ii) engages in willful fraud that causes harm to the Company (or one of its subsidiaries) or that is intended to manipulate the performance results under Section 2 of this Plan (either of (i) or (ii), Detrimental Conduct,) either during employment with the Company or after such employment terminates for any reason, the Participant is acting contrary to the long-term interests of the Company.  Accordingly, the following rules shall apply under this Plan in respect of Detrimental Conduct:
Forfeiture and Repayment Under Certain Circumstances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6
 
.  Any Awards and payments of cash will constitute special incentive payments to the Participant and will not be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the purposes of determining any pension, retirement, death or other benefits under: (a) any qualified, non-qualified or supplemental pension, retirement or profit-sharing plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (b) any bonus, life insurance or other employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Eligible Compensation
 
5.7
 
.  With respect to any Participant who participates in the Companys Executive Retention Replacement Plan (ERRP) or has a Change of Control Employment Agreement (CIC Agreement) with the Company, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan the terms of the ERRP or CIC Agreement, as applicable, shall prevail to the extent of any inconsistency.
Relationship to Other Plans
 
5.8
 
  With respect to any Participant with respect to whom the Committee determines that the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code could apply, the Plan shall be interpreted and administered in a manner that is consistent with the provisions of the McDonalds Corporation 2009 Cash Incentive Plan, and in the event of any inconsistency between this Plan and the McDonalds Corporation 2009 Cash Incentive Plan the relevant provisions of the latter plan shall prevail.
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
.
 
5.9
 
. Awards granted under the Plan shall not be assignable or transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Awards Not Assignable
 
5.10
 
 . Neither the establishment of this Plan, nor the granting of any Award, shall be construed to (a) give any Participant the right to continued employment with the Company or to any benefits not specifically provided under the Plan or (b) in any manner modify the right of the Company or any of its subsidiaries to modify, amend or terminate any of their respective employee benefit plans.
No Additional Rights
 
5.11
 
 . The law of the State of Illinois, except its law with respect to choice of law, shall be controlling in all matters relating to this Plan.
Choice of Law
 
5.12
 
. .  Section and clause headings are for ease of reference only and should not be taken as affecting the interpretation of the provisions of this Plan.
Headings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


