FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100910093959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 9, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's August and year-to-date 2010 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 4.9% in August. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"Giving our customers a unique balance of food and beverage choices is driving performance in every area of the world," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "We're offering new menu items and classic favorites, including premium and value selections, all for our customers to enjoy in our convenient, contemporary restaurants. We intend to continue our momentum by further enhancing the McDonald's experience and giving customers even more reasons to visit."
U.S. comparable sales increased 4.6% for the month. The ongoing appeal of the McCaf Real Fruit Smoothies and Frapps, complemented by McDonald's everyday affordability and core menu options, drove the month's performance.
In Europe, comparable sales rose 2.2% in August due to strong performance in the U.K. and Russia, slightly offset by France. Relevant limited-time food offerings, including the summer barbeque food event in the U.K., were key sales drivers for the month.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa rose 7.8%, fueled by sales growth in Japan, China and Australia. Locally-relevant menu items, daypart value options and convenience drove APMEA's growth.
Systemwide sales increased 4.7%, or 6.2% in constant currencies, for the month.
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 21, 2010 and will host an investor webcast. This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



