FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100309155438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 8, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys February and year-to-date 2010 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
3 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 4.8% in February.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 "Our worldwide results for February show that we're satisfying the needs of our customers around the world by giving them more choice and variety, unbeatable value and the convenience they're looking for given today's busy lifestyles," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.
   
 U.S. comparable sales increased in February supported by strong consumer demand for core favorites, including an Olympic-themed Chicken McNugget promotion, the Breakfast Dollar Menu and McCaf beverages.
   
 In Europe, comparable sales rose 5.4% for the month fueled by France, the U.K. and many other markets.  Across Europe, performance benefited from core and seasonal products that offer value at all price tiers of the menu.
   
 In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), comparable sales rose 10.5% for February, led by strong results in Japan, China and Australia.  The celebration of Chinese New Year in many markets contributed to the months performance.   Throughout APMEA, consumers continued to respond favorably to the regions compelling value offerings, great tasting premium menu selections and relevant convenience.
   
 Systemwide sales rose 11.2%, or 6.4% in constant currencies, for the month.
   
 
 
1
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
 
 
2
 
Upcoming Communications
     Pete Bensen, Chief Financial Officer, will speak at 8:25 a.m. (Eastern Time) at the .  This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Consumer Conference on March 10, 2010
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
     McDonalds tentatively plans to release first quarter results before the market opens on April 21, 2010 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
     McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  Over 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
# # #
 


