FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100609102738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 8, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's May and year-to-date 2010 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 4.8% in May. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"May marks another month of sustained sales growth, demonstrating the ongoing appeal of McDonald's unique combination of convenience, value and variety," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Our focus on enhancing the McDonald's experience through affordable food choices, modernized restaurants and relevant marketing is giving customers even more reasons to visit McDonald's."
U.S. business momentum continued with May comparable sales increasing 3.4%. Results were fueled by McDonald's compelling food and beverage value offerings, the recent addition of Frapps to the McCaf line-up and the popularity of the Shrek-themed Chicken McNugget and Happy Meal promotions.
In Europe, the Company's strong performance continued as May comparable sales increased 5.7% driven by positive sales growth in France, Germany, the U.K. and Russia. Europe's focus on four-tier menus, daypart expansion and the introduction of relevant new products like the McWrap in Germany drove the segment's results.
Comparable sales were up 3.8% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) reflecting broad-based strength across the segment, led by Australia and China. APMEA's emphasis on convenience, value, menu variety and restaurant reimaging contributed to May's performance.
Systemwide sales increased 5.5%, or 6.2% in constant currencies for the month.
Based on current foreign currency rates, particularly the Euro which accounts for approximately 25% of McDonald's consolidated operating income, the Company expects foreign currency translation to have a negative impact on net income per share for the full year. However, foreign currency translation is expected to have minimal to no impact on second quarter net income per share.
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release second quarter results before the market opens on July 23, 2010 and will host an investor webcast. This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Over 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



