FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100810160738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's July and year-to-date 2010 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 7.0% in July. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"Our customers are at the heart of everything we do, and our strong July sales performance reflects our commitment to them," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "We're listening to our customers and offering the right combination of high-quality food and beverage choices, convenient locations with extended hours, and outstanding value across the entire menu."
U.S. business momentum continued with July comparable sales increasing 5.7%. Top contributors to July's results were beverages, including the recently launched McCaf Real Fruit Smoothies and Frapps along with value-based drinks. Core products and McDonald's all-day, everyday value menus were also key drivers for the month.
In Europe, July comparable sales increased 5.3%, led by France, the U.K. and Germany. Europe's unique premium menu offerings, compelling value and the ongoing modernization of Europe's restaurants are enhancing the McDonald's experience and contributing to the sales growth.
July comparable sales increased 10.1% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) due to strong sales growth in Japan, Australia, China and most other countries. Innovative value offerings, menu variety and breakfast continued to deliver results.
Systemwide sales increased 6.8%, or 8.3% in constant currencies for the month.
PERCENT INCREASE
 
 
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonald's tentatively plans to release August 2010 sales on September 9, 2010.
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Over 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



