FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20101109115408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 8, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's October and year-to-date 2010 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 6.5% in October. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"We are keeping the McDonald's brand in demand around the world by serving great-tasting, high-quality food at an outstanding value," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Moving forward, our customer focus, menu innovation, and the ongoing modernization of our convenient restaurants will continue to deliver the unique McDonald's experience that keeps customers coming back."
U.S. comparable sales increased 5.6% for the month, reflecting the combined power of McDonald's menu, marketing strategies and restaurant operations. The excitement of the Monopoly game promotion and the popularity of the featured core products including Chicken McNuggets, McGriddles, Big Mac and McCaf beverages were key drivers for the month.
In Europe, October comparable sales rose 5.8% due to strong performance in France, the U.K. and RussiaEurope's focus on elevating the customer experience with a blend of menu variety and choice, along with updated restaurants that are more convenient and accessible, contributed to the segment's October performance.
.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa rose 5.3% for the month fueled by sales growth in Japan, China and AustraliaAPMEA's October results were driven by convenience, value, and a balance of core and local offerings.
.
Systemwide sales increased 7.4%, or 7.8% in constant currencies, for the month.
 
* Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
Definitions
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
Pete Bensen, Chief Financial Officer of McDonald's Corporation, and Jan Fields, President of McDonald's USA, will speak at 9:45 a.m. Eastern Time at the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer & Retail Conference on November 16, 2010. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's tentatively plans to release November 2010 sales on December 8, 2010.
 
McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



