FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100511163622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 10, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys April and year-to-date 2010 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
3 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 4.9% in April.  Performance by segment was as follows:
  
 "McDonalds continues to connect with customers through our outstanding menu variety and compelling value, unbeatable convenience and contemporary restaurants,""These competitive advantages have powered our ongoing momentum and delivered another month of strong sales performance."
   
said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.
 U.S. comparable sales rose 3.8% in April as McDonalds remains a relevant and affordable choice for consumers. Top contributors to Aprils results were beverages, including new McCaf offerings like Frapps, core products like Chicken McNuggets, and an all-day, everyday value message that starts with the Dollar Menu at breakfast.
   
 In Europe, the Companys strong performance continued as April comparable sales increased 5.3% led by positive sales growth in France, the U.K., Germany and Russia.  McDonalds European business continues to benefit from customer-focused strategies around menu choice, everyday affordability and restaurant reimaging.
   
 Comparable sales were up 3.9% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, driven by performance in Australia and many other markets. Extended value programs, locally-relevant menu variety, convenience and service enhancements contributed to the segments April performance.
   
 Systemwide sales rose 10.3%, or 6.4% in constant currencies, for the month.
   
 
1
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
 
 
2
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live on May 20, 2010 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time at An archived replay and podcast of the meeting will be available for a limited time.
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.
com
.
 Jim Skinner, Chief Executive Officer, will speak at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time at the . This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at
   
Sanford Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference on June 2, 2010
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release May sales on June 8, 2010.
   
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. Over 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
   
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
# # #
 


