FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20101209152356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 8, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's November and year-to-date 2010 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 4.8% in November. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"McDonald's continued strong performance reflects the benefits of our global alignment around the Plan to Win," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Contemporary locations, quality food and beverages at an outstanding value and operations excellence continue to be the key ingredients to becoming our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink."
In the U.S., comparable sales increased 4.9% for November fueled by McDonald's iconic McRib sandwich, continued strong demand for McCaf beverages and everyday value throughout the menu.
In Europe, November comparable sales rose 4.9% due to strong performance in France, Germany, Russia and the U.K. Europe's focus on premium products such as the McWraps in Germany, four-tiered menu pricing and ongoing restaurant modernization contributed to these results.
Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa rose 2.4% for the month driven by Australia with positive results in China and most other markets, partly offset by Japan. APMEA's results benefited from initiatives that are differentiating the McDonald's experience: compelling value, conveniences such as delivery and drive-thru, and restaurant reimaging.
Systemwide sales increased 4.7%, or 6.1% in constant currencies, for the month. Separately, foreign currencies have weakened. At current rates, currency translation is expected to negatively impact fourth quarter earnings by $0.01 to $0.02 per share.
 
*  Asia/Pacific,  Middle East and Africa
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
    McDonald's tentatively plans to release fourth quarter results before the market opens on January 24, 2011 and will host an investor webcast. This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter on .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
     McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries. More than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees. Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



