FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100421080846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2010, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the first quarter 2010. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong results for the first quarter driven by all areas of the world.
"McDonald's compelling menu, unmatched convenience and unbeatable value generated another strong quarterly performance," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "For the first quarter, we delivered comparable sales and guest count growth in each geographic segment along with global double-digit operating income growth. As we move forward, we will continue to pursue opportunities to extend our relevance, sustain our momentum and create ongoing excitement for our customers."
The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
McDonald's U.S. continues to be a convenient and affordable choice for consumers in an uncertain economy. For the first quarter, the U.S. business drove sales and market share increases by providing outstanding value across the entire menu, contributing to the segment's 12% operating income increase. Consumers visited McDonald's more often to enjoy a wide range of beverage offerings including value-based drinks, frappes and the entire McCaf line-up, everyday value menu options, led by the recently introduced Breakfast Dollar Menu, and classic core favorites like Chicken McNuggets.
For the first quarter, performance in France, Russia and the U.K. drove Europe's operating income up 23% (14% in constant currencies). Across the segment, McDonald's continued to outperform the informal eating out market and gain market share. Europe's themed food events, three- and four-price tier menus, restaurant reimaging and daypart expansion fueled the segment's strong performance.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa's (APMEA) ongoing commitment to compelling, everyday value, locally-relevant products and emphasis on operations excellence drove positive comparable sales in nearly all markets. APMEA's operating income increased 27% (9% in constant currencies), led by results in Australia and China.
Jim Skinner concluded, "This week, McDonald's franchisees, suppliers and employees are gathering together for our biennial Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention to celebrate our accomplishments and collaborate on our future. I am confident that our collective strength and alignment around the world will continue to energize our future performance. Our momentum continues with April's global comparable sales trending at least as strong as first quarter sales."
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
In addition, the following items impacted the growth in diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 compared with 2009. In the aggregate, these items negatively impacted the comparison by 9 percentage points (8 percentage points in constant currencies):
For the quarter ended March 31, 2010:
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2009:
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 11:00 a.m. Central Time on April 21, 2010. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
The Company plans to release April 2010 sales information on May 10, 2010.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter, primarily driven by the Australian Dollar, Euro and Canadian Dollar.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the first quarter 2010, net income was $1,089.8 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.00. Results included after tax impairment charges of $30.0 million or $0.03 per share related to restaurant closings in Japan in conjunction with the previously announced strategic review of the market's restaurant portfolio. Results were positively impacted by $0.05 per share due to the effect of foreign currency translation.
For the first quarter 2009, net income was $979.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.87. Results benefited by an after tax gain of $47.4 million or $0.04 per share due to the sale of the Company's minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox).
During the first quarter 2010, the Company repurchased 6.7 million shares of its stock for $427.1 million and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share or $592.0 million.
 
Table of Contents
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the first quarter 2010 and 2009 was 29.8% and 27.6%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Gain on Sale of Investment
In 2009, the Company sold its minority ownership interest in Redbox to Coinstar, Inc., the majority owner, and recognized a nonoperating pretax gain of $76.5 million for first quarter 2009.
Income Taxes
 
 
Table of Contents
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out (IEO) segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The current economic environment has caused the IEO segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. The current environment has also increased consumer focus on value, heightening pricing pressures across the industry, which could affect our ability to continue to grow sales despite the strength of our Brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand.
The risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win, particularly as the global economy emerges from recession.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by slowing economies, rising unemployment, declining wages, constrained credit and volatile financial markets. These conditions have significantly affected consumer spending and habits. Moreover, the timing and strength of a recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. The key factors that affect our ability to manage the impact of these conditions are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix.
Our refranchising strategy involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. When we refranchise a restaurant, it reduces consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where we receive rent and/or royalties. It also reduces Company-operated margin dollars while increasing franchised margin dollars, with the impact on margin percentages varying based on sales and operating costs of the refranchised restaurants. Our refranchising strategy can also expose us to risks, including the following:
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



