FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100210113653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 9, 2010, the Company issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys January 2010 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
3 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation announced today that global comparable sales increased 2.6% in January.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 McDonalds continues to deliver great tasting, high quality food at an outstanding value to the growing number of customers we serve around the world every day, said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  As we raise the bar on our menu, convenience and value offerings, I am confident that we will exceed our customers expectations again in 2010.
   
 U.S. comparable sales were down slightly in January, still outpacing the overall quick-service restaurant industry.  McDonalds U.S. continued to satisfy customers appetite for value, variety and convenience with appealing new additions  the compelling Breakfast Dollar Menu, the portable Mac Snack Wrap and free Wi-Fi.
   
 In Europe, comparable sales rose 4.3% for the month fueled by France, the U.K.and many other markets, partly offset by Germany.  Throughout Europe, affordable menu choices, seasonal and fourth tier menu options and a contemporary restaurant environment make McDonalds an easy choice for customers.
   
 
 January comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) were up 4.3% led by performance in Japan and Australia, partly offset by a difficult comparison in China and other markets due to the timing of Chinese New Year.  Everyday affordability, core menu favorites, breakfast and convenience initiatives continue to differentiate the McDonalds experience in APMEA.
   
 Systemwide sales rose 9.1%, or 4.3% in constant currencies, for the month.
   
 
1
 
 Recently, McDonalds Japan (a 50%-owned affiliate) announced plans to close approximately 430 restaurants over the next 12-18 months in conjunction with the strategic review of the markets real estate portfolio. These actions are designed to enhance the customer experience, overall profitability and returns of the market.  As a result of these closures, McDonalds Corporation expects to record after tax impairment charges totaling approximately $40 million to $50 million, primarily in the first half of the year.
   
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
 
 
2
 
Upcoming Communication
 
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release February sales on March 8, 2010.
   
 McDonald's is the leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 local restaurants in more than 100 countries.  About 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by franchisees.  Please visit our website at to learn more about the Company.
   
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
# # #
 


