FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20100723080734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2010, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced strong results for the second quarter driven by all areas of the world.
"McDonald's second quarter reflects strong top-line and bottom-line results with each area of the world generating higher comparable sales, traffic and profits," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "This performance demonstrates the popular appeal of McDonald's relevant menu choices. We're delivering great tasting food to our 60 million customers around the world every day with the outstanding value and unmatched convenience they expect from McDonald's."
The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company announced the following:
 
McDonald's U.S. continued to deliver results by maintaining its commitment to high-quality food at a great value  a top priority for today's consumer. For the second quarter, U.S. operating income rose 7% as sales were driven by the beverage line-up, featuring the popular new Frapps and value-based beverages, as well as classic core menu favorites and the everyday affordability of the Dollar Menu.
McDonald's Europe generated strong comparable sales for the second quarter against robust prior year results. France, Russia and the U.K. fueled Europe's 9% (14% in constant currencies) operating income increase. Upgrading the customer experience with contemporary and inviting dcors, signature menu options and unique marketing promotions contributed to Europe's second quarter performance.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa's (APMEA) second quarter results reflect broad-based strength across the segment. Australia and China led the segment's 19% (9% in constant currencies) quarterly operating income increase as everyday affordability, daypart expansion and core menu extensions continue to give customers even more reasons to visit McDonald's in APMEA.
Jim Skinner concluded, "What makes McDonald's unique is the distinctive experience we're creating for our customers through menu innovation, restaurant reimaging and operations excellence. I am pleased with our second quarter performance and confident in our ability to continue to deliver solid results. As we begin the third quarter, our momentum continues with July global comparable sales trending in-line with or better than second quarter sales"
.
 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
In addition, the following items, in total, negatively impacted the growth rate in diluted earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2010 by 5 percentage points (5 percentage points in constant currencies). The impact of these items was not significant for the quarter:
For the six months ended June 30, 2010:
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2009:
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on July 23, 2010. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010.
The Company plans to release July 2010 sales information on August 9, 2010.
 
OTHER INFORMATION
McDonald's Corporation announced that it has notified the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) of its intention to delist, effective August 20, 2010, its 8-7/8% Debentures due April 1, 2011 (NYSE: MCD11; CUSIP: 580135BF7), and its 6-3/8% Debentures Due 2028 (NYSE: MCD28; CUSIP: 580135BY6). The debentures will continue to be quoted and traded on the NYSE Bond System. The Company's decision to delist the debentures was due to the increasing costs associated with maintaining listings on the NYSE and corresponding low trading volume for both classes of debentures.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a minimal impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter due to the weaker Euro offset primarily by the stronger Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results for the six months, primarily driven by the stronger Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2010, net income was $1,225.8 million and $2,315.6 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $1.13 and $2.13, respectively. Results for the six months included after tax impairment charges of $35.3 million or $0.03 per share related to restaurant closings in Japan in conjunction with the previously announced strategic review of the market's restaurant portfolio. Foreign currency translation had no impact on diluted earnings per share for the quarter and a positive impact of $0.05 per share for the six months.
For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009, net income was $1,093.7 million and $2,073.2 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $0.98 and $1.85, respectively. Results benefited by an after tax gain of $58.5 million, or $0.05 per share, for the six months due to the sale of the Company's minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox).
 
Table of Contents
During the second quarter 2010, the Company repurchased 14.1 million shares of its stock for nearly $1.0 billion, bringing the total repurchases for 2010 to 20.8 million shares or $1.4 billion. During the second quarter 2010, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share or $589.1 million, bringing the total dividends paid for 2010 to nearly $1.2 billion.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
 
Table of Contents
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the six months 2010 and 2009 was 30.5% and 28.7%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
 
Table of Contents
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Gain on Sale of Investment
 
Income Taxes
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out (IEO) segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The current economic environment has caused the IEO segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. The current environment has also increased consumer focus on value, heightening pricing pressures across the industry, which could affect our ability to continue to grow sales despite the strength of our Brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. In particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter" presents challenges for our Brand.
The risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win, particularly as the global economy emerges from recession.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by slowing economies, rising unemployment, declining wages, constrained credit and volatile financial markets. These conditions have significantly affected consumer spending and habits. Moreover, the strength of the current recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. The key factors that affect our ability to manage the impact of these conditions are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix.
Our refranchising strategy involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. When we refranchise a restaurant, it reduces consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where we receive rent and/or royalties. It also reduces Company-operated margin dollars while increasing franchised margin dollars, with the impact on margin percentages varying based on sales and operating costs of the refranchised restaurants. Our refranchising strategy can also expose us to risks, including the following:
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics, or expectations about them, can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



