FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20111021082342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011, driven by growth across all areas of the world. In constant currencies, the Company posted higher revenues, operating income and earnings per share compared with the prior year within a challenging global economy.
"McDonald's third quarter results reflect the ongoing strength of our customer-focused Plan to Win. We are executing the right strategies to grow the business for the long term while delivering consistently strong quarterly results," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "The investments we are making to optimize our menu, modernize the restaurant experience and broaden McDonald's accessibility with ongoing convenience and value platforms are driving profitable market share growth  a clear indication that our strategy is working."
The Company reported the following highlights for the quarter:
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company previously announced the following:
 
McDonald's U.S. performance continues to be driven by initiatives that provide compelling value alongside classic core menu favorites and new menu options. During the quarter, the U.S. featured premium McCaf beverages including the new Mango Pineapple Smoothie, Chicken McNuggets and wholesome breakfast choices, including Oatmeal and the Egg McMuffin, which generated strong comparable sales and contributed to the segment's 6% operating income increase.
In Europe, tiered-menus that offer premium, core and everyday value selections, unique promotional food events that capitalize on customers' desire for variety, and ongoing restaurant modernization efforts contributed to the segment's growth in comparable sales and 15% (6% in constant currencies) rise in operating income. France, Russia, Germany and the U.K. led the segment's sales and operating income growth.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) generated positive comparable sales and guest count growth across most markets, somewhat offset by Japan, against robust prior year results. For the quarter, APMEA's operating income grew 26% (15% in constant currencies) as emphasis on daypart value offerings, unique menu options and customer conveniences continue to fuel the segment's results.
 
Jim Skinner concluded, "McDonald's continued success is driven by the strategic and operational fundamentals that guide our business. Our sustained commitment to and execution of the Plan to Win is creating significant brand differentiation that resonates with customers and generates long-term profitable growth for our System and our shareholders. As we enter the final quarter of 2011, our global comparable sales remain strong with October comparable sales expected to be up 4.0% to 5.0%."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
This press release should be read in conjuction with Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011.
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on October 21, 2011. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
The Company plans to release October 2011 sales information on November 8, 2011.
McDonald's Corporation will webcast its November 10, 2011 investor meeting. Please access for more information on presentation times and links to the live webcast. There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011, hereafter referred to as "the quarter" and "nine months". This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter and nine months driven by the stronger Euro and Australian Dollar as well as most other currencies.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the quarter, net income increased 9% (3% in constant currencies) to $1,507.3 million and diluted earnings per share increased 12% (6% in constant currencies) to $1.45. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.08 on diluted earnings per share.
For the nine months, net income increased 11% (6% in constant currencies) to $4,126.5 million and diluted earnings per share increased 15% (10% in constant currencies) to $3.94. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.19 on diluted earnings per share.
 
Table of Contents
For the quarter and nine months, the growth rate on net income was negatively impacted by a higher effective income tax rate, while the growth rate on diluted earnings per share benefited from a three percent decrease in diluted weighted average shares outstanding. For the nine months 2010, results included after tax impairment charges of $36.8 million or $0.03 per share related to the Company's share of strategic restaurant closing costs in Japan.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 10.5 million shares of its stock for $909.6 million, bringing total repurchases for 2011 to 38.1 million shares or $3.0 billion, and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.61 per share or $627.2 million, bringing the total dividends paid for 2011 to $1.9 billion. The Company also declared a fourth quarter 2011 dividend of $0.70 per share, reflecting an increase of 15%, and expects total cash returned to shareholders to be approximately $6 billion for 2011.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix.
 
Table of Contents
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the nine months 2011 and 2010 was 31.8% and 31.4%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
 
Table of Contents
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been contracting in many markets, including some major markets, due to unfavorable economic conditions, and this may continue. Persistently high unemployment rates in many markets have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and margin growth despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter," as well as industry marketing practices.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges or restaurant closings. Some macroeconomic conditions have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and extreme volatility in financial markets worldwide, which has been exacerbated by the significant uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries. This environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. These unfavorable conditions are expected to persist for the foreseeable future in many of our most important markets. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



