FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110808165301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys July 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 5.1%in July.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 "McDonalds continues to deliver great tasting, high quality food at an outstanding value to a growing number of customers around the world," said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "Were creating a unique McDonalds experience that is welcoming our customers into modern restaurants with convenient hours and locations and offering more choice in food and drink options than ever before."
   
 In the U.S., July comparable sales rose 4.4% as McDonalds remains a relevant and affordable choice for consumers. July results were fueled by the popularity of the McCaf beverage line-up, including the recently introduced Mango Pineapple Smoothie, core products including Chicken McNuggets and McDonalds market-leading breakfast.
   
 The strength of McDonalds European business continued with July comparable sales up 5.3% led by performance in the U.K., Russia and Germany. Premium beef and chicken offerings, the growing popularity of breakfast and the ongoing benefit of restaurant reimaging contributed to the months results.
   
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 4.0% led by performance in China and most other markets, partially offset by Japan. APMEAs results benefitted from compelling daypart value options, conveniences such as delivery and drive-thru and locally-relevant menu items.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 14.0%, or 7.1% in constant currencies.
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release August sales on September 9, 2011.
   
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 118 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


