FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110912141358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 9, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys August 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 3.5%in August.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
 "August marks our 100 consecutive month of global comparable sales growth, demonstrating the ongoing customer appeal of McDonalds great tasting food, offered at an outstanding value in our modern and convenient restaurants," said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.
   
th
 The strength of McDonalds U.S. business continued with August comparable sales up 3.9%.  Results were driven by the growing popularity of the McCaf beverage line-up, McDonalds breakfast, including Fruit & Maple Oatmeal, and the new Premium Chicken sandwiches.
   
 In Europe, comparable sales for the month rose 2.7% led by performance in the U.K. and Russia. Europes premium offerings, locally-relevant food events and the ongoing benefit of modernized restaurants contributed to the months results.
   
 August comparable sales were down 0.3% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa as sales growth in China, Australia and many other markets was offset by Japan.  Across the segment, innovative value offerings, breakfast and conveniences like drive-thru and extended hours continued to deliver results.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 11.3%, or 5.4% in constant currencies.
   
 McDonalds effective tax rate for the third quarter is expected to be 33% to 34%, reflecting a non-cash deferred tax cost related to certain foreign operations. The Company continues to expect the full year effective tax rate to be 31% to 32%.
   
 
 
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 21, 2011 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 118 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


