FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110214192546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 On February 9, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of McDonald's Corporation (the Company) approved grants of restricted stock units, or RSUs, under the Companys Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended (the Plan) to the Company's named executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Company's most recent proxy statement and who are currently employed by the Company.
   
 The RSUs cliff vest after three years, subject to a performance-based vesting condition linked to the level of compounded annual growth in diluted earnings per share, or EPS, on a cumulative basis, achieved by the Company during the three-year vesting period.  The EPS target approved by the Committee for the RSUs is 6% compounded annual EPS growth on a cumulative basis.  If no growth is achieved, none of the RSUs will vest. If EPS growth is positive, but below the cumulative 6% target, a portion of the awards will vest in proportion to the level of EPS growth achieved.
   
 For compensation purposes, EPS is adjusted from the measures as reported in our financial statements, specifically EPS is expressed in constant currencies (excluding the effects of foreign currency translation) to more accurately reflect underlying business trends.  In addition, certain income and/or expense items that are not indicative of ongoing results may be excluded at the discretion of the Committee.
   
i.e.,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


