FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20111212155114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On December 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys November 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
McDONALD'S DELIVERS STRONG PERFORMANCE WORLDWIDE;
NOVEMBER COMPARABLE SALES  RISE 7.4% 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 7.4%in November.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 "We're listening to our customers and delivering what they expect from McDonald's by optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "McDonalds steadfast focus on our customers and our operations under the Plan to Win is driving the sustained momentum of our global business."
   
 In the U.S., the continued strength of McDonalds breakfast daypart, everyday value, the addition of the seasonal Peppermint Mocha to the McCaf line-up, and the Chicken McNuggets promotion drove the 6.5% increase in November comparable sales.
   
 Europe posted a 6.5% increase in comparable sales for November driven by performance in the U.K., France, Russia and Germany.  Throughout Europe, an expanding variety of premium and mid-tier products, exciting promotional food and marketing events, and reimaged restaurants enhanced the McDonalds experience and drove the segments comparable sales increase for the month.
   
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 8.1% in November led by Japan and China.  APMEAs results were fueled by locally-relevant menus that include daypart value platforms and classic core favorites complemented by compelling customer conveniences.
   
 Systemwide sales increased 9.5% for the month.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release fourth quarter results before the market opens on January 24, 2012 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 119 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


