FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20111114112359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 10, 2011, McDonalds Corporation issued an Investor Release titled McDonald's Positioned for Continued Growth Under the Plan to Win.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
OAK BROOK, IL  During the Companys investor meeting today, McDonalds Corporation Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner and members of senior management reiterated the Companys commitment to its strategic plan  the Plan to Win  and outlined opportunities and investments to further modernize the Brand, enhance customer relevance and sustain the Companys performance for the future.
 Jim Skinner said, Over the past nine years the Plan to Win has been the right blueprint for McDonalds and remains relevant today.  It has enabled us to perform well in both robust and challenging economic environments.  Most importantly, the Plan is supported by our unparalleled competitive advantages in size and scale, our financial strength and our System alignment.
   
McDonalds reaffirmed its constant currency growth targets:
During the meeting, the Company highlighted the following for 2012:
 
 
 
 Skinner continued, McDonalds long-term growth targets have served us well and remain intact going forward.  They are realistic and sustainable for a company of our size, particularly as we invest to widen our competitive advantages and stretch our Brand.
   
 Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson said, We are intensifying our efforts behind three global priorities that represent our greatest opportunities under the Plan to Win  optimizing and evolving our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand. I am confident in our strategies and the ability of our talented System to execute against these priorities as we drive toward our mission to become our customers favorite place and way to eat and drink.
   
 Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen said, We are operating from a position of strength and now is an opportune time to accelerate new store openings and reimaging to modernize our Brand.  We have the financial resources and discipline to invest wisely, and given our strong returns we are increasing our capital expenditures to about $2.9 billion for 2012.
   
 Bensen continued, The first priority for our significant cash flow remains reinvesting in our business to be increasingly relevant to our customers.  After that, we expect to return all of our free cash flow to shareholders over the long term through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.  Through October 2011, we have returned $5.1 billion to shareholders and expect to finish the year at around $6 billion.
   
 Skinner concluded, McDonalds unwavering commitment to and outstanding execution of the Plan to Win has created significant brand differentiation and strong business momentum.  McDonalds is well-positioned for sustained profitable growth and I am confident that the investments we are making today will yield long-term value for our shareholders in the future.
   
 
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
 
 The Company plans to release November 2011 sales on December 8, 2011.
   
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 119 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.


