FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110201115253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 (d)
   
   
On January 27, 2011, the Board of Directors (the Board) of McDonalds Corporation (the Company) elected Donald Thompson, the Companys President and Chief Operating Officer, as a member of the Board.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Thompson's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 (e) On January 26, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved the payout structure for the 2011 Target Incentive Plan (TIP) awards, as well as the parameters for determining final awards.  For employees at the level of Senior Vice President and above, these awards are granted subject to the terms of the Companys Target Incentive Plan, which was filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K, dated January 23, 2008.
   
   
 
The target 2011 TIP awards for the Companys named executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Companys most recent proxy statement and who are currently employed with the Company are shown in the table below.
 
 
TIP payouts are determined by a combination of a team performance factor and an individual performance factor.
 
The team factor is determined primarily by growth in operating income over the Companys 2010 operating income, measured in constant currency.  The named executive officers listed above, like all other employees, are generally not eligible to receive a TIP payout if the Company does not achieve growth in operating income in 2011.  Operating income is measured on a consolidated or geographic business unit level, as applicable.
 
For Messrs. Skinner and Bensen, the team factor measures corporate performance.  For Mr. Fenton, the team factor is based on a combination of corporate performance and the performance of APMEA, reflecting his responsibilities.
 
Individual performance is measured against various qualitative performance factors, including setting and achieving goals that are in line with the Companys strategic focus.
 
The maximum TIP award that any of the named executive officers can earn in 2011 is 250% of the target award.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On January 27, 2011, the Company issued an investor release announcing that the Board declared a quarterly cash dividend. A copy of the investor release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
   
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
DON THOMPSON ELECTED TO McDONALDS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
McDonalds Corporation announced today that Don Thompson, President and Chief Operating Officer, has been elected to the Companys Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Andrew McKenna, Chairman of McDonalds Board of Directors, said, Don is an exceptional leader, with tremendous knowledge of our business and the QSR industry. With his strong global insights, he will bring valuable experience to our Board.
Don provides our global organization with energetic and experienced leadership, and has a passion and commitment to the core values of the company, said McDonalds CEO Jim Skinner. The Board will greatly benefit from his perspective.
In his current role as President and Chief Operating Officer, Don Thompson directs global strategy and operations for more than 32,000 McDonalds restaurants in 117 countries to create value for McDonalds and its shareholders. Thompson began his career at McDonalds as an electrical engineer in 1990 before moving to the operations side of the business. He has since held a variety of leadership positions including U.S. Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Division President, and President of McDonalds USA.
Thompson serves on the board of directors for the Exelon Corporation in Chicago, one of the nations largest electric companies, and at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He also serves on the board of trustees for Purdue University, and is a member of the Executive Leadership Council, an organization comprised of the nations most-recognized African-American executives.
McDonald's is the world's leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving more than 62 million customers in 117 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. To learn more about the company, please visit .
www.aboutmcdonalds.com
 
 
# # #
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  Today McDonalds Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.61 per share of common stock payable on March 15, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2011.
 
Upcoming Communications
McDonalds plans to release January 2011 sales information on February 8, 2011.
McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving more than 62 million customers in 117 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.


