FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110610091957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys May 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 3.1%in May.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
 McDonalds ability to connect with consumers and deliver the menu choices, everyday affordability and experience that is in tune with todays lifestyles has been the cornerstone of our ongoing sales momentum, said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  The modernization of our restaurants, coupled with menu innovation and enhanced accessibility of our Brand continues to deliver the unique McDonalds experience that is resonating with our customers around the world.
   
 U.S. comparable sales increased 2.4% for the month.  The national launch of Frozen Strawberry Lemonade, the popularity of Fruit & Maple Oatmeal and the continued demand for McDonalds signature beverage and core offerings were key contributors for the month.
   
 In Europe, May comparable sales increased 2.3% driven by strong performance in France, Russia and the U.K., partially offset by Germany.  Key contributors to Europes May results included premium  menu offerings such as McWraps and the 1955 burger, limited-time food events like the U.K.s Great Tastes of America campaign, and the ongoing benefit of modernized locations that are differentiating the McDonalds experience.
   
 Comparable sales rose 4.3% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa led by performance in China and many other markets.  Compelling breakfast and lunch value offerings, convenience initiatives such as drive-thru, delivery and extended operating hours, and unique promotional tie-ins were the leading sales drivers for the segment in May.
   
 
 
 
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 12.0%, or 4.7% in constant currencies.  Separately, currency translation is now expected to benefit second quarter earnings per share by $0.09 to $0.10 as a result of recent strengthening of foreign currencies.
   
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release second quarter results before the market opens on July 22, 2011 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
 
 
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 117 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


