FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110309093420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys February 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 3.9%in February.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
 "McDonalds commitment to connecting with customers around the world continues to drive our sales performance," said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "When customers visit McDonalds they are looking for great-tasting food that is affordable, convenient and served in a contemporary and inviting atmosphere.  We are pleased that more customers are finding their great restaurant experience at McDonalds."
   
 In the U.S., comparable sales increased 2.7%for February driven by continued strong demand for McCaf beverages, McDonalds popular breakfast, featuring the new Fruit & Maple Oatmeal, and everyday value throughout the menu.  McDonalds U.S. remains committed to its long-term strategy of attracting customers by enhancing the restaurant experience, expanding McCaf options to become a beverage destination, and leveraging core products like Chicken McNuggets and the burger line-up.
   
 
 In Europe, comparable sales rose 5.1% in February led by France, the U.K. and Russia.  Unique premium menu offerings, including Frances new premium beef campaign and the Big Tasty featured in the U.K., ongoing restaurant modernization and enhanced customer conveniences contributed to the months results.
   
 February comparable sales increased 4.0% in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa fueled by sales growth in Japan and Australia, partly offset by China due to the timing of Chinese New Year.  Across the segment, compelling menu initiatives, including limited-time offers such as the Big America 2 promotion in Japan and the Value Lunch program in Australia, are resonating with customers and differentiating the McDonalds experience.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 8.1%, or 5.2% in constant currencies.
   
     
 
 
 
 McDonalds effective tax rate for the first quarter is expected to be 27% to 29%, reflecting a deferred tax benefit related to certain foreign operations. The Company continues to expect the full year effective tax rate to be 30% to 32%.
   
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release first quarter results before the market opens on April 21, 2011 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 117 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


