FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20111108154212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys October 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
McDONALD'S REPORTS ANOTHER STRONG MONTH;
GLOBAL COMPARABLE SALES UP 5.5% IN OCTOBER
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 5.5%in October.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
 McDonalds Plan to Win continues to deliver strong global comparable sales increases, said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  The ongoing strength of our results reflects the power of our customer-focused plan, supported by actions that enhance the relevance of the Brand.
   
 In the U.S., comparable sales rose 5.2% as customers continue to visit McDonalds for classic core favorites, relevant new products and compelling value offered in our convenient restaurants.  The excitement of the Monopoly game promotion and the popularity of featured products, including the Big Mac, Chicken McNuggets, Fruit & Maple Oatmeal and McCaf beverages, were key drivers for the month.
   
 Europe posted a 4.8% increase in comparable sales for the month driven by performance in France, Russia and the U.K.  The segment continued to benefit from locally-relevant menu choices, promotional food events, everyday value options and reimaged restaurants that are more convenient and accessible.
   
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 6.1% for the month led by Australia, China and JapanAPMEAs results were driven by convenience, unique daypart value platforms, and a balance of core and local offerings.
   
.
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 7.7%, or 7.6% in constant currencies.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds Corporation will webcast its November 10, 2011 investor meeting.  Please access for more information on presentation times and links to the live webcast.  There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 The Company plans to release November 2011 sales on December 8, 2011.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 119 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 


