FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110509164229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 9, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys April 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 6.0%in April.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 "Our sales momentum continues as we focus on optimizing the menu with the right food and beverage offerings, modernizing the restaurant experience by upgrading our customer service and restaurant designs, and broadening our accessibility through convenience and everyday value," said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "The demand for McDonalds continues to grow, reflecting the success of our efforts to provide an enjoyable experience for customers around the world."
   
 In the U.S., April comparable sales rose 4.0% fueled by the popularity of the McCaf beverage line-up, including the recently introduced McCaf shakes, McDonalds market-leading breakfast menu, and featured core products including the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder with Cheese.
   
 The strength of McDonalds European business continued with April comparable sales up 6.5% led by performance in the U.K., France and Russia.  Aprils results were driven by emphasis on premium beef and chicken options, unique dessert offerings and the ongoing benefit of restaurant reimaging.
   
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa increased 6.5% led by performance in China, Japan and Australia.  Strong consumer appetite for locally-relevant menu options, compelling value and the convenience of McDonalds drove the segments April results.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 12.7%, or 7.5% in constant currencies.
   
 
 
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live on May 19, 2011 at 9:00 a.m. Central Time at . An archived replay and podcast of the meeting will be available for a limited time.
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 Jim Skinner, Chief Executive Officer, will speak at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time at Sanford Bernsteins 27th Annual Strategic Decisions Conference in New York on June 1, 2011. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release May sales on June 8, 2011.
   
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 117 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


