FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110208125536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 8, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys January 2011 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 5.3%in January.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"We begin 2011 with a continued focus on our customers, building on our strong foundation of value, convenience, and menu variety," said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "Were offering high-quality, customer-driven food choices in modern, comfortable restaurants with convenient hours and locations.  I am confident in our plans and our ability to keep innovating, investing and delivering what our customers want today and into the future."
    
     In the U.S., comparable sales increased 3.1% for January as customers enjoyed an outstanding restaurant experience featuring compelling value, iconic core favorites alongside innovative new offerings and the everyday ease of McDonalds.  The ongoing appeal of McDonalds beverage line-up, including McCaf premium hot chocolate and Caramel Mochas, the popularity of Chicken McNuggets, and the national launch of Fruit & Maple Oatmeal all contributed to Januarys results.
     In Europe, January comparable sales rose 7.0% led by strong performance in Germany, the U.K., France and Russia.  Europes performance continues to be driven by signature offerings and new products across all price tiers, service and design upgrades to the restaurant experience, and increased accessibility through breakfast and drive-thru.
     Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa were up 5.2% for the month driven by positive results in China, Japan and Australia.  APMEA benefited from a winning combination of locally-relevant menu items, compelling value and unmatched convenience initiatives.
     Systemwide sales increased 7.4%, or 6.7% in constant currencies, for the month.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
cDonalds tentatively plans to release February sales on March 8, 2011.
     M
 
McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 32,000 locations serving approximately 64 million customers in 117 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
     
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 


