FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20110124080843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2011, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the fourth quarter and 2010 year-end results. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced positive results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010, fueled by strong comparable sales.
"Every day, more than 62 million customers around the world choose our restaurants for the McDonald's experience  great tasting, high-quality food that's affordable, convenient and served in a contemporary and inviting atmosphere. During 2010, we continued our efforts toward becoming our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink  and customers rewarded us by visiting our restaurants more often said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "As a result, we generated strong sales and delivered profitable market share growth, along with higher global revenues, operating income and earnings per share. McDonald's continued success demonstrates that our Plan to Win works in any environment and has positioned us to continue our performance in 2011."
,"
Full year 2010 highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter highlights included:
 
 
 
 
In the U.S., ongoing emphasis on driving customer traffic, menu innovation and compelling value delivered industry-leading comparable sales growth during the fourth quarter, despite December's sales being dampened by inclement weather During the quarter, the U.S. reinforced the Company's dedication to value and variety by featuring Chicken McNuggets, McRib and the everyday affordability of the food and beverage options available across McDonald's menu. The U.S. continued to build brand loyalty and enhanced the customer experience with the popular Monopoly promotion and the introduction of the Caramel Mocha to the successful McCaf line-up.
.
Europe's comparable sales and guest counts increased for the quarter despite very severe weather, most notably in Germany and the U.K. during December. France and Russia led the segment's fourth quarter operating income growth of 2% (9% in constant currencies). Europe's focus on upgrading the customer experience through ongoing restaurant modernization, expanded drive-thru service and four-tier menu pricing contributed to the segment's results.
In the fourth quarter, Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) delivered strong comparable sales, led by Japan, Australia and China, and operating income growth of 18% (10% in constant currencies). Menu innovation, value initiatives and limited-time offers created excitement and drove consumer demand in this key growth region.
Jim Skinner continued, "McDonald's continues to operate from a position of strength. Our recurring cash flow and strong balance sheet allow us to invest appropriately in our business and return significant amounts of cash to our shareholders. In 2011, we plan to invest about $2.5 billion of capital  roughly half dedicated to opening approximately 1,100 new McDonald's restaurants and the other half allocated to investing in our existing locations, including reimaging."
Jim Skinner concluded, "Our results for 2010 reflect the power of our customer-centered initiatives, the fundamentals of our business model and the alignment between McDonald's franchisees, suppliers and employees. I am confident that these strengths will endure and continue to deliver for our System and our shareholders over the long term. We are off to a good start in 2011 - our momentum is continuing in January with global comparable sales expected to increase 4-5%."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
In addition, the following items impacted the constant currency growth in operating income and diluted earnings per share for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010 compared with 2009:
For the quarters ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
 
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
represent sales at all restaurants and represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the , can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Comparable sales
comparable guest counts
calendar shift/trading day adjustment
Information in is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
constant currency
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on January 24, 2011. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
See Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010.
The Company plans to release January 2011 sales information on February 8, 2011.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
n/m Not meaningful
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter primarily due to the weaker Euro partly offset by the stronger Australian Dollar. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results for the year driven by stronger global currencies, primarily the Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, partly offset by the weaker Euro.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010, net income was $1,242.3 million and $4,946.3 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $1.16 and $4.58, respectively. Results for the quarter included after tax income due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of $14.4 million, or $0.01 per share, primarily related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. Results for the year included after tax charges due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of $24.6 million, or $0.02 per share, primarily related to restaurant closings in Japan in conjunction with the first quarter strategic review of the market's restaurant portfolio, partly offset by the credit relating to the Latin America transaction referred to above. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.02 per share on diluted earnings per share for the quarter and a positive impact of $0.01 per share for the year.
 
Table of Contents
For the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009, net income was $1,216.8 million and $4,551.0 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share were $1.11 and $4.11, respectively. The quarter and full year benefited by after tax income due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of $89.6 million and $91.4 million, respectively, or $0.08 per share for both periods primarily related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. Results for the year also benefited by an after tax gain of $58.8 million or $0.05 per share related to the sale of the Company's minority interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox).
During the fourth quarter 2010, the Company repurchased 5.9 million shares of its stock for $456.3 million, bringing the total repurchases for 2010 to 37.8 million shares or nearly $2.7 billion. During the fourth quarter 2010, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.61 per share or $643.5 million, bringing the total dividends paid for 2010 to $2.4 billion.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Comparable sales are a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and are reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
 
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Impairment and other charges (credits), net negatively impacted constant currency operating income growth by 3 and 1 percentage points for the quarter and year, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the year 2010 and 2009 was 31.0% and 30.1%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Gain on Sale of Investment
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2010. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. The informal eating out (IEO) segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The current economic environment has caused the IEO segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. The current environment, including persistently high unemployment rates in many of our markets, has also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing pressures across the industry. Combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances could affect our ability to continue to grow comparable sales and margins despite the strength of our Brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, as well as by the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter."
 
Table of Contents
The risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results  people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income.
Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of Company-operated restaurants. Some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates and continuing uncertainty in financial and credit markets. These conditions have significantly affected consumer confidence and spending. Moreover, the strength of the current recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics, or expectations about them, can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



