FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120308165051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 8, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys February 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
McDONALD'S FEBRUARY GLOBAL COMPARABLE SALES RISE 7.5%
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 7.5% in February.  Systemwide sales for the month increased 9.4%, or 9.7% in constant currencies. McDonalds February sales results reflect the benefit of about three percentage points from an extra day due to leap year.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
  
 The cornerstone of our ongoing sales momentum is our ability to connect with customers and deliver the menu choices, everyday affordability and convenience they expect from McDonalds, said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. We will continue to grow sales by focusing on the key elements of the Plan to Win as we strive to become our customers favorite place and way to eat and drink.
   
 In the U.S., comparable sales rose 11.1% supported by strong customer demand for Chicken McBites, classic core favorites including Filet-O-Fish, signature beverage offerings, and McDonalds breakfast line-up.
   
 Europe posted a 4.0% increase in comparable sales for February led by results in the U.K. and Russia. Severe winter weather in certain markets negatively impacted the segments overall February results. Across Europe, performance benefited from compelling value menu offerings, fourth-tier products, limited-time food events and the ongoing benefit of modernized locations that are differentiating the McDonalds experience.
   
 Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) reported a comparable sales increase of 2.4% for February led by Australia, somewhat offset by Japan and the shift in timing of Chinese New Year. Throughout APMEA, consumers continued to respond favorably to the regions compelling breakfast and lunch value platforms, great tasting premium menu selections and relevant convenience.
   
 
 
 
 As previously communicated, while McDonalds continues to deliver global top-line sales results, the current operating environment includes persistent economic uncertainty, austerity measures in Europe and commodity and labor cost pressures, particularly in the U.S. These challenges are expected to impact the Companys first quarter operating income growth.
   
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 Don Thompson, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Pete Bensen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will speak at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) at the UBS Global
   
 
 
 
 
Consumer Conference in Boston on March 14, 2012.  This discussion will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release first quarter results before the market opens on April 20, 2012 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving nearly 68 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   


