FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20121019080050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 19, 2012
McDONALDS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
One McDonalds Plaza
Oak Brook, Illinois
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
60523
(Zip Code)
(630) 623-3000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
October 19, 2012
, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an investor release reporting the Companys results for the
third
quarter and
nine
months ended
September 30, 2012
. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and
nine
months ended
September 30, 2012
. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
.
McDonald's Reports Third Quarter Earnings with Positive Comparable Sales Across All Segments
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index
 
McDonald's Reports Third Quarter Earnings with Positive Comparable Sales Across All Segments

Exhibit 99.1
McDONALD'S REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS WITH POSITIVE
COMPARABLE SALES ACROSS ALL SEGMENTS
OAK BROOK, IL - McDonald's Corporation today announced results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012. In constant currencies, the Company posted higher revenues and earnings per share compared with the prior year while operating income was flat. On an as reported basis, revenues were relatively flat and operating income and earnings per share decreased, reflecting the impact of foreign currency translation.
While our sales momentum and current financial results reflect today's challenging conditions, we continue to see significant long-term opportunities for brand McDonald's and remain confident in the underlying strength of our business model, said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson. We have the right plans in place to drive long-term profitable growth along with the experience and alignment throughout the McDonald's System to navigate the current environment. We expect near-term top- and bottom-line growth to remain pressured as we focus on driving guest traffic and market share by leveraging our strategies and competitive advantages in response to the global economic, operating and competitive challenges. As we begin fourth quarter, October's global comparable sales are currently trending negative.
Third Quarter highlights included:
In addition, the Company previously announced the following:
McDonald's U.S. posted a comparable sales increase of 1.2% for the third quarter amid broad competitive activity. During the quarter, the U.S. showcased beverages, breakfast and classic core favorites, featured everyday value and continued to upgrade McDonald's existing restaurant base with fresh, modern designs. Operating income for the quarter declined 1%.
During third quarter, Europe generated comparable sales growth of 1.8% and delivered market share gains despite negative guest traffic. Europe's operating income decreased 7% for the quarter (increased 3% in constant currencies). Comparable sales and operating income in Russia, the U.K. and France led the segment's results, partially offset by Germany. Throughout Europe, premium food events, emphasis on everyday value and the ongoing benefits of reimaged restaurants supported the segment's results.
In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), comparable sales increased 1.4% for the quarter as limited-time offers, featured alongside classic core favorites and unique value platforms, attracted more customers to McDonald's. APMEA's operating income increased 3% (4% in constant currencies) as solid comparable sales and operating income performance in China and Australia were partly offset by ongoing weakness in Japan and other markets.
1
Don Thompson concluded, The McDonald's System remains focused on building the business for the long-term by meeting the evolving needs of our customers. We continue to execute against our global priorities of optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility under the Plan to Win while implementing near-term tactical shifts to build momentum, enhance the relevance of our brand and deliver increased value to the McDonald's System and our shareholders.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS - CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
Comparable sales represent sales at all restaurants and comparable guest counts represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the calendar shift/trading day adjustment, can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Information in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
This press release should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012.
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on October 19, 2012. A link to the live webcast will be available at
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
The Company plans to release October 2012 sales information on November 8, 2012.
Kathy Martin, Vice President of Investor Relations, will speak at 10:35 a.m. Central Time at the Morningstar 2012 Management Behind the Moat Conference on November 8, 2012. This presentation will be available for replay for a limited time thereafter at
www.morningstar.com
.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
2
McDONALD'S CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
n/m Not meaningful
3
McDONALD'S CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
n/m Not meaningful
4

Exhibit 99.2
McDonald's Corporation
Supplemental Information
Quarter and
Nine Months
Ended
September 30,
2012
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the quarter and
nine
months ended
September 30,
2012
. This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter and
nine
months primarily due to the weaker Euro, along with most other foreign currencies.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the quarter, net income decreased
3%
(increased
1%
in constant currencies) to
$1,455.0 million
and diluted earnings per share decreased
1%
(increased
4%
in constant currencies) to
$1.43
. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of
$0.08
per share on diluted earnings per share.
For the
nine
months, net income decreased
1%
(increased
3%
in constant currencies) to
$4,068.7 million
and diluted earnings per share increased
1%
(
5%
in constant currencies) to
$3.98
. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of
$0.16
per share on diluted earnings per share.
1
For the quarter and
nine
months, net income and diluted earnings per share growth in constant currencies were positively impacted by franchised margin dollars and a decrease in diluted weighted average shares outstanding, partly offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses. The quarter also benefited from a lower effective income tax rate, while the
nine
months were negatively impacted by a higher effective income tax rate.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased
6.7 million
shares of its stock for
$596.8 million
, bringing total repurchases for the
nine
months to
24.1 million
shares or
$2.3 billion
. In addition, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of
$0.70
per share or
$703.8 million
, bringing the total dividends paid for the
nine
months to
$2.1 billion
. The Company also declared a fourth quarter 2012 dividend of $0.77 per share, reflecting an increase of 10%, and expects total cash returned to shareholders to be at least $5.5 billion for 2012.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
2
*APMEA represents Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa.
3
Comparable sales is a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and is reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix.
COMPARABLE SALES
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
4
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
5
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
6
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
7
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
Combined Operating Margin:
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin was
31.1%
and
31.8%
for the
nine
months
2012
and
2011
, respectively, as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher restaurant expenses and planned increases in selling, general and administrative costs.
Interest Expense
8
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
Income Taxes
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
9
10
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
* Reflected the following satellites: At
September 30, 2012
- U.S.
1,005
, Germany
182
, Japan
873
, Canada
439
; At
September 30, 2011
- U.S.
1,092
, Germany
177
, Japan
912
, Canada
463
.
11
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
12
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been flat or contracting in many of our markets, including some of our major markets, due to unfavorable global economic conditions, and this environment is expected to continue. Persistently high unemployment rates in many of these markets, and declining economic growth rates or recessionary conditions in some of them, have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with pressure on labor and occupancy costs and volatility in commodity prices, as well as aggressive competitive activity, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and are expected to continue to pressure margins during 2012 in all of our geographic segments. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter, as well as industry marketing practices.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results-people, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
13
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the prolonged challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results.
Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can also vary substantially by market. The current global environment has been characterized by persistently weak economies, high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. Many major economies, both advanced and developing, are also facing significant economic issues. These include, in the U.S., concerns about the federal deficit and the expected adverse effects of the automatic spending cuts and increased income tax rates, which become effective in 2013 absent further legislation. The Eurozone debt crisis is ongoing and continues to depress consumer and business confidence and spending in many markets. Important markets in Asia, which have been key drivers of global growth, have been experiencing declining growth rates, in part due to the economic situation in Europe. Uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity.
These conditions are adversely affecting sales and/or guest counts in many of our markets, including some of our major markets. To mitigate their impact, we have intensified our focus on value as a driver of guest counts through menu, pricing and promotional actions. These actions have adversely affected our margin percent, and margins will remain under pressure. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following:
14
Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
15
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
16



