FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120912152041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 11, 2012, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys August 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced that global comparable sales increased 3.7% in August.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 McDonalds ability to connect with our customers and deliver what they want  great food at a good value  remains the cornerstone of our long-term success, said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson.  I am confident that our three global priorities  optimizing the menu, modernizing the restaurant experience and broadening accessibility to our brand  position us for future growth as we navigate the persistent challenges of todays environment.
   
 In August, U.S. comparable sales increased 3.0%.  The popularity of McDonalds great-tasting and convenient breakfast along with all-day everyday value contributed to the months results.
   
 Europe delivered a 3.1% increase in comparable sales for August as positive results in the U.K., France and Russia were slightly offset by performance in Germany and certain markets in Southern Europe. Premium food events complemented by unique value offerings and promotions highlighting McDonalds Olympic sponsorship benefited the segments performance.
   
 In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), comparable sales increased 5.7% for August.  Strong results in Australia and China along with the positive impact from the shift in the timing of Ramadan were partially offset by ongoing weakness in Japan.  Everyday value platforms, locally-relevant menu choices and compelling conveniences contributed to APMEAs August results.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 1.2%, or 6.2% in constant currencies.
   
 
 
 
 
 
                      * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 19, 2012 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,500 locations serving approximately 69 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 


