FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120420081103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the first quarter 2012. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012, posting higher revenue, operating income and earnings per share over the prior year.
"McDonald's continued momentum in first quarter drove market share gains and profitability across all geographic segments," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "The ongoing strength of McDonald's results, amidst persistent economic headwinds, is a testament to our customer-focused plans and our proven business model. We remain committed to the global priorities that are most impactful to our customers  evolving our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand. As we enter the second quarter, global comparable sales growth for April is expected to be about 4%."
First Quarter highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
McDonald's U.S. generated comparable sales of 8.9% and robust guest traffic through a balanced approach to variety, convenience and value. Top-line performance benefited from the ongoing popularity of McDonald's classic core favorites, menu innovations such as Chicken McBites, the enhanced customer experience of McDonald's reimaged restaurants and favorable weather Operating income for the quarter rose 10%.
.
Europe delivered solid comparable sales growth of 5.0% and operating income growth of 4% (8% in constant currencies) for the quarter. Performance in the U.K. and Russia led the segment's sales growth, with France and Germany also contributing. Europe's emphasis on everyday affordability, premium product innovation and restaurant reimaging continued to provide an appealing restaurant experience and contributed to the segment's quarterly results. Ongoing economic challenges and severe weather in February negatively impacted the quarter.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa's (APMEA) comparable sales increase of 5.5% reflected broad-based growth led by China, Australia and Japan. APMEA's operating income rose 10% (7% in constant currencies) as strong execution of the segment's core menu, compelling value and convenience strategies drove results.
Jim Skinner concluded, "Last month I announced my plan to retire from McDonald's in June. As I reflect on the past eight years, I am inspired by the Owner/Operators, suppliers and employees around the world who have aligned behind the Plan to Win and made McDonald's more relevant for more customers than ever before. Looking ahead, I am confident that Don Thompson and his leadership team possess the vision, talent and commitment to seize the future and take McDonald's brand and business performance to new heights. I wish all McDonald's stakeholders the very best knowing the brightest days for McDonald's still lie ahead."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
Comparable sales represent sales at all restaurants and comparable guest counts represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Growth in comparable sales is driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the calendar shift/trading day adjustment, can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Information in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
This press release should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 9:00 a.m. Central Time on April 20, 2012. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
The Company plans to release April 2012 sales information on May 8, 2012.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
n/m Not meaningful

Exhibit 99.2
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, hereafter referred to as the "quarter". This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter driven primarily by the weaker Euro.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the quarter, net income increased 5% (6% in constant currencies) to $1,266.7 million and diluted earnings per share increased 7% (8% in constant currencies) to $1.23. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.01 per share on diluted earnings per share.
For the quarter, the growth rates on net income and diluted earnings per share were negatively impacted by an increase in the effective income tax rate, while the growth rate on diluted earnings per share benefited from a decrease in diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 8.1 million shares of its stock for $802.8 million and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.70 per share or $712.3 million.
 
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales is a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and is reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Growth in comparable sales is driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the quarter 2012 and 2011 was 30.0% and 29.9%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been contracting in many markets, including some major markets, due to unfavorable economic conditions, and this is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. Persistently high unemployment rates in many markets have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with pressure on commodity, labor and occupancy costs, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and are expected to continue to pressure margins during 2012 in all operating segments, despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter," as well as industry marketing practices.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the current challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results.
Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges or restaurant closings. Some macroeconomic conditions have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. The current global environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. Concerns about the ongoing Eurozone sovereign debt issues continue to affect both Europe and world markets. Widespread austerity measures in Europe are expected to continue to adversely affect consumer confidence, purchasing power and spending. This environment has also adversely affected business confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. These unfavorable conditions are expected to persist for the remainder of the year. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



