FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20121211090940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 10, 2012, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys November 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced that global comparable sales increased 2.4% in November.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 McDonalds is a destination for more than 69 million customers every day because we offer great-tasting, high-quality food in increasingly modern and appealing restaurants, said McDonalds President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson.  We are strengthening our focus on the global priorities that are most impactful to our customers  optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand to move our business forward amid todays broad-based economic and competitive challenges.  I am confident that these strategies and the actions we are taking will solidify our foundation and deliver long-term profitable growth in the future.
   
 U.S. comparable sales rose 2.5% in November as McDonalds remains a relevant and affordable choice for consumers.  Results for the month benefited from the ongoing popularity of McDonalds breakfast along with balance across everyday value offerings, premium menu options including the limited-time Cheddar Bacon Onion sandwiches, and the beverage line-up.
   
 In Europe, comparable sales increased 1.4% as positive results in the U.K., Russia and other markets were partly offset by performance in Germany.  Across the segment, enhanced value platforms and meal combinations, promotions featuring premium menu options and the modernization of Europes restaurants contributed to Novembers sales performance.
   
 In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), Novembers comparable sales increased 0.6% as positive results in Australia and other markets were largely offset by ongoing weakness in Japan.  Throughout APMEA, expanded value programs, locally-relevant menu variety, convenience and service enhancements continue to be key drivers of the McDonalds experience.
   
 
 
 
 
       Systemwide sales for the month increased 3.2%, or 4.8% in constant currencies.
 
 
                      * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 
  
 
McDonalds tentatively plans to release fourth quarter results before the market opens on January 23, 2013 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
   
McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 34,000 locations serving more than 69 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 
 


