FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120208171855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 8, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys January 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
McDONALD'S DELIVERS A JANUARY COMPARABLE SALES INCREASE OF 6.7%
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 6.7%in January.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
 "January marks another month of sustained sales growth, demonstrating the ongoing appeal of McDonalds winning combination of value, menu variety and convenience," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  "Our focus on enhancing the McDonalds experience through great-tasting, affordable food and beverage choices served in increasingly modernized restaurants is helping make McDonalds our customers favorite place and way to eat and drink."
   
 In the U.S., comparable sales rose 7.8% as customers visited McDonalds to enjoy wholesome breakfast choices, McDonalds popular beverage line-up and classic core favorites, as well as the most recent addition to the menu  Chicken McBites  made with bite-sized pieces of premium chicken breast available for a limited time.
   
 Europe posted a 4.0% increase in comparable sales for January driven by performance in the U.K Russia, Germany and FranceAmidst ongoing economic challenges, McDonalds core menu options, rotating premium and mid-tier offerings and ongoing restaurant reimaging provided customers with compelling value and a relevant experience that drove the segments comparable sales increase for the month.
   
.,
.
 Comparable sales in Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) increased 7.3% in January led by China, which benefitted in part from the timing of Chinese New Year, and many other markets.  APMEAs unique limited-time food events, ongoing breakfast and lunch value platforms and unmatched customer convenience fueled the segments performance.
   
 Systemwide sales for the month increased 8.4%, or 9.1% in constant currencies.
   
 
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
 
Definitions
 
Upcoming Communications
 The Company plans to release February 2012 sales on March 8, 2012.
   
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving nearly 68 million customers in 119 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.


