FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120924101508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 20, 2012, McDonalds Corporation issued an Investor Release announcing that on the same day the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend.  A copy of the Investor Release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 EXHIBIT 99
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  On September 20, 2012, McDonalds Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.77 per share of common stock payable on December 17, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 3, 2012.  This represents a 10% increase over the Companys previous quarterly dividend and brings the fourth quarter dividend payout to approximately $770 million
 McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson said, Todays announced dividend increase brings our 2012 expected total cash return to shareholders to at least $5.5 billion through dividends and share repurchases.
   
 Thompson continued, McDonalds commitment to enhancing the customer experience  from our menu and operations to our value and convenience  continues to move us closer to becoming our customers favorite place and way to eat and drink.  Our philosophy on the use of capital remains unchanged with our first priority being to reinvest in our business to drive sales and cash flow, while generating strong returns.  After these investment opportunities, we expect to return all of our free cash flow to shareholders over the long-term through dividends and share repurchases.  Todays dividend increase demonstrates our confidence in the long-term strength of our Brand and our commitment to enhancing shareholder value.
   
 McDonalds has raised its dividend each and every year since paying its first dividend in 1976. The new quarterly dividend of $0.77 per share is equivalent to $3.08 annually.
   
Upcoming Communications
 McDonalds tentatively plans to release third quarter results before the market opens on October 19, 2012 and will host an investor webcast.  This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,500 locations serving approximately 69 million customers in 119 countries each day.  More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.  These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   


