FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120326110356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b)           On March 21, 2012, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) announced that James A. Skinner informed the Board of Directors (the Board) of his decision to retire as Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, effective June 30, 2012.  Mr. Skinner also resigned from the Companys Board, effective June 30, 2012.  In connection with Mr. Skinners retirement, the Board reduced its size by one for a total of 13 Directors, effective June 30, 2012.  The press release announcing Mr. Skinners retirement is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
(c)           On March 21, 2012, the Company announced that Donald Thompson was elected Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective July 1, 2012.  Mr. Thompson also will remain as President of the Company.  Previously, Mr. Thompson, 48, served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, since January 2010.  Prior to that role, Mr. Thompson served as President of McDonald's USA, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, since August 2006.  The press release announcing Mr. Thompsons election is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
 
    In connection with Mr. Thompsons promotion, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved certain changes to his compensation, each effective July 1, 2012.  Mr. Thompsons base salary will be increased to $1,100,000, an increase of 26%.  In addition, his new target award under our annual bonus program, the 2012 Target Incentive Plan or TIP, will be 150% of his base salary.  The performance measures used to calculate 2012 TIP awards are described on the Companys Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2012.  Finally, Mr. Thompsons target award under the Companys Cash Performance Unit Plan, or CPUP, was increased to $8,000,000.  CPUP operates on a three-year cycle with a cumulative payout at the end of the cycle.  The performance measures used to calculate 2010-2012 CPUP payouts are described on the Companys Form 8-K filed on February 16, 2010.  Mr. Thompsons 2012 TIP and 2010-2012 CPUP awards will both be prorated based upon the number of days he will have held his current and new positions, respectively, during the applicable performance cycles.
   
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 McDonalds Corporation today announced that Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner retire after 41 years with the Company, effective June 30, 2012. McDonalds Board of Directors elected current President and Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson to succeed Skinner as CEO, effective July 1, 2012.
   
has informed the Board of Directors of his decision to
 
 Jims stellar leadership has driven unprecedented momentum at McDonalds. This success has benefitted our valued shareholders, as McDonalds compound annual total shareholder return was 21 percent during Jims tenure as CEO, and market capitalization surpassed $100 billion for the first time in the companys history, said Andy McKenna, chairman of McDonalds Board of Directors. Jim has brought to the table exceptional knowledge of McDonalds restaurant operations and a keen sense of business know-how. We salute Jim for his years of service to McDonalds, and will miss his passion, candor and wit. As we look to the future, the Board has every confidence that Dons strategic leadership and global business insight make him the ideal CEO.  His track record of performance as President and COO of McDonalds Corporation and President of McDonalds USA speak to his qualifications to further drive the companys momentum.
   
 Skinner, 67, became McDonalds CEO in November 2004. He was one of the architects of the Plan to Win, the companys strategic framework since 2003. The Plans emphasis on being better, not just bigger has fueled a revitalization for McDonalds, marked by modern, reimaged restaurants; increased menu variety; and global initiatives championing balanced, active lifestyles. With an unwavering focus on the Plan to Win, Skinner has led the company during a consecutive run of nearly nine years of increasing global comparable sales.
   
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2
 
 Doing whats right for our customers and our business has driven my passion as CEO of McDonalds, said Skinner. Im honored to have served and earned the trust of the Board, our shareholders, franchisees, suppliers and the men and women of this great company. Don Thompson is well prepared for the CEO role, and under his leadership, our company will continue to meet the needs of our 68 million customers around the world every day. With Don at the helm, I am extremely confident in the future of McDonalds.
   
 Im honored by the Boards election, said Thompson. Jim has been an outstanding leader, mentor and friend. Im humbled to take the baton as CEO of McDonalds. Our management team is strong and will remain focused on the Plan to Win and on our three global priorities  optimizing the menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening our accessibility to even more customers. Our franchisees, suppliers and employees are committed to ensuring that McDonalds is our customers favorite way and place to eat and drink.
   
 Thompson, 48, became President and COO of McDonalds in January 2010. In this capacity, he has directed global strategy and operations for more than 33,000 McDonalds restaurants in 119 countries. Previously, he served as President of McDonalds USA from 2006 until 2010. In that role, he was responsible for the strategic direction and positive business results of the nearly 14,000 restaurants in the U.S.
   
 As a 22-year veteran of McDonalds, Thompson began as an electrical engineer in 1990. Since then, he has held a variety of leadership positions in the U.S. business and global system.  In addition to serving on McDonalds Board of Directors, Thompson is a member of the Board of Directors of Exelon Corporation and Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He also is a Trustee of his alma mater, Purdue University.
   
 Skinner also has resigned from McDonalds Board of Directors, effective June 30, 2012.
   
visit
For complete biographical information and photos of Jim Skinner and Don Thompson,
http://www.aboutmcdonalds.com/mcd/our_company/leadership.html
About McDonalds
McDonald's is the world's leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving approximately 68 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80 percent of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. To learn more about the company, please visit www.aboutmcdonalds.com.
 
Page 2 of 2


