FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120611171239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On June 8, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's May 2012 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 3.3% in May. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"Our commitment to providing customers with menu variety, value and convenience delivered global comparable sales growth in May despite the increasingly challenging global economic environment," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner. "I am confident we will continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth as we remain focused on the opportunities that will enable Brand McDonald's to further extend our relevance to the 68 million customers who we serve around the world every day."
U.S. comparable sales rose 4.4% in May. Continuing demand for McDonald's breakfast, including the launch of the seasonal Blueberry Banana Nut Oatmeal, coupled with new McCaf beverage favorites like the Cherry Berry Chiller along with everyday value and the ongoing popularity of core menu favorites drove results.
Europe posted a 2.9% increase in comparable sales for May driven by the U.K., Russia and France, partially offset by Germany. Premium menu options, everyday value offerings and the ongoing benefits of reimaging contributed to Europe's May sales.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) reported a comparable sales decrease of 1.7% for May. Positive results in Australia were more than offset by negative results in Japan and, to a lesser extent, China. Ongoing emphasis on compelling daypart value platforms, locally-relevant menu variety and convenience enhancements continue to be key differentiators of the McDonald's experience in APMEA.
Systemwide sales for the month increased 1.2%, or 5.6% in constant currencies.
As previously communicated, while McDonald's continues to deliver positive global comparable sales growth, ongoing global economic volatility, austerity measures in Europe, and increased general and administrative expenses will significantly pressure second quarter results. In addition, at current exchange rates, foreign currency translation is estimated to negatively impact second quarter earnings per share by $0.07-$0.09.
 
* Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
Pete Bensen, Chief Financial Officer, will speak at the Jefferies 2012 Global Consumer Conference at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) in Nantucket on June 19, 2012. This discussion will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's tentatively plans to release second quarter results before the market opens on July 23, 2012 and will host an investor webcast. This webcast will be broadcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
McDonald's is the world's leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,500 locations serving nearly 68 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



