FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120508151123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 8, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys April 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
McDONALD'S GLOBAL COMPARABLE SALES RISE 3.3% IN APRIL
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced global comparable sales growth of 3.3% in April.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
  
Our focus on delivering great tasting food and an exceptional restaurant experience generated positive global comparable sales results in April, said McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner.  Amidst a challenging global economic environment, McDonalds ongoing commitment to optimizing the menu, modernizing the restaurant experience and broadening accessibility will enable us to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.
 U.S. comparable sales rose 3.3% in April as McDonalds remains a relevant and affordable choice for an increasing number of consumers.  McDonalds everyday value, including the 20-piece Chicken McNuggets on the recently launched Extra Value Menu, unique beverage and breakfast offerings as well as this months featured premium chicken sandwich and Angus burger offerings drove the U.S. performance.
   
 Europe posted a 3.5% increase in comparable sales for April with each of the segments major markets  France, the U.K., Germany and Russia  contributing.  Customer enthusiasm for the latest addition of Monopoly in Germany and the U.K., premium food events in France and Russia, as well as the ongoing benefits of restaurant reimaging fueled results for the month.
   
 Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) reported a comparable sales increase of 1.1% for April with positive results in China and many other markets partially offset by negative results in Japan.  Throughout the segment, APMEA continues to focus on compelling daypart value programs, locally-relevant menu variety, convenience and service enhancements that are differentiating the McDonalds experience.
   
 
 
 
      Systemwide sales for the month increased 2.2%, or 5.5% in constant currencies.
 
 
                          * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
 McDonald's Annual Shareholders Meeting will be webcast live on May 24, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. (Central Time) on   An archived replay and podcast of the meeting will be available for a limited time.
   
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 Don Thompson, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Tim Fenton, President of Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, will participate in the Sanford Bernstein Strategic Decisions conference at
   
 
 
 
 
8:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) in New York on May 30, 2012.  This discussion will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at .
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
 The Company plans to release May 2012 sales on June 8, 2012.
   
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,000 locations serving nearly 68 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 


