FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120809144304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 8, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an Investor Release reporting the Company's July 2012 sales. The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced that global comparable sales were flat in July. Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 
"We are committed to driving the business over the long-term by executing our proven Plan to Win strategy, despite softer global comparable sales in July," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson. "Our leadership team has the experience to effectively manage through the challenging environment and build sales and market share. As a System, we remain focused on providing high quality, affordable meal options, unparalleled convenience and a great McDonald's experience to the 69 million customers we serve each day."
In July, U.S. comparable sales were relatively flat as the promotional activity did not offset the effects of the sluggish economy and last year's launch of the Mango Pineapple smoothie. Customers' ongoing appetite for McDonald's breakfast and the McCaf Frapp line-up supported the month's results. Going forward, the U.S. is focused on driving results by providing a well-balanced combination of value, variety and innovation across the menu.
Europe reported a 0.6% decline in comparable sales for July as strong results in the U.K. and Russia were more than offset by weaker performance in Germany and several Southern European markets amidst an increasingly difficult environment. Europe's priority remains building guest traffic by featuring enhanced everyday value offerings alongside classic core favorites and appealing premium products.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa reported a comparable sales decrease of 1.5% for July. Positive results in Australia were more than offset by ongoing weakness in Japan and the negative impact from the shift in timing of Ramadan. Throughout the segment, compelling daypart value platforms and market-leading conveniences continue to differentiate McDonald's in the region.
Systemwide sales for the month decreased 3.2%, or increased 2.3% in constant currencies.
Don Thompson concluded, "I am confident that McDonald's will continue to succeed as we execute against our three global priorities of optimizing the menu, modernizing the experience and broadening accessibility to our brand."
 
* Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
Definitions
 
 
 
Upcoming Communications
The Company plans to release August 2012 sales on September 11, 2012.
McDonald's is the world's leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,500 locations serving approximately 69 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.



