FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120416163405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(c)           On April 16, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the Company) announced that Timothy J. Fenton was elected Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective July 1, 2012.  Previously, Mr. Fenton, 54, served as President of McDonalds Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, since January 2005.  The press release announcing Mr. Fentons election is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
In connection with Mr. Fentons promotion, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved certain changes to his compensation, each effective July 1, 2012.  Mr. Fentons base salary will be increased to $750,000, an increase of 20%.  In addition, his new target award under our annual bonus program, the 2012 Target Incentive Plan or TIP, will be increased to 125% of his base salary.  The performance measures used to calculate 2012 TIP awards are described on the Companys Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2012.  Finally, Mr. Fentons target award under the Companys Cash Performance Unit Plan, or CPUP, will be increased to $3,800,000.  CPUP operates on a three-year cycle with a cumulative payout at the end of the cycle.  The performance measures used to calculate 2010-2012 CPUP payouts are described on the Companys Form 8-K filed on February 16, 2010.  Mr. Fentons 2012 TIP and 2010-2012 CPUP awards will both be prorated based upon the number of days he will have held his current and new positions, respectively, during the applicable performance cycles.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Oak Brook, Ill. (April 16, 2012)  McDonalds Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner today announced that Tim Fenton, currently President of McDonalds Asia, Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) and 39-year veteran with the Company, has been elected to the role of Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for the company's more than 33,500 restaurants worldwide. Fenton will assume his new role effective July 1, 2012.
Fenton, 54, was elected by the McDonald's Board of Directors today upon the recommendation of Skinner and CEO-Elect Don Thompson. As announced last month, current COO Thompson will become President and Chief Executive Officer on July 1, 2012, following the retirement of Skinner. Fenton will continue to report to Thompson.
Tim is one of our most seasoned global leaders and has done a remarkable job growing our international business, said Skinner. He has extensive experience, knowledge and passion for our brand and has been an integral part of McDonalds global success.
 
Over his nearly 40-year career with McDonalds, Fenton has held a variety of prominent leadership roles in Europe, the U.S., and APMEA.
Tim and his team have dramatically increased our performance and profitability in APMEA  through their strong strategies and outstanding execution of our Plan to Win, said Thompson. Hes a superb operations leader who complements our strong management team as we focus on our global priorities -- optimizing the menu, modernizing our customer experience, and broadening our accessibility to even more customers.
 
 
Page 1 of 2
 
 
 
Im honored to serve McDonald's in this new capacity and look forward to working closely with our leadership teams around the world to continue to elevate our brand and make our system even stronger, said Fenton.
 
More About Tim Fenton
 
Fenton began his career with McDonalds in 1973 as a crew member in Utica, N.Y.
 
As President of McDonalds APMEA, Fenton is accountable for 37 countries and more than 8,800 McDonald's restaurants. Prior to his current role in APMEA, Fenton served as President of the East Division for McDonald's USA. He was responsible for more than 5,200 restaurants in the eastern United States, covering eight geographic regions in 21 states.
 
Previously, Fenton served as Senior Vice President of Southeast Asia/Middle East/Africa. He was responsible for 1,300 restaurants in 22 countries throughout Southeast Asia/Middle East/Africa and oversaw market and brand development, restaurant operations, sales growth, financial performance, and management development.
 
Fenton also served as Vice President and Managing Director of McDonalds Middle East Development Company, where he was responsible for 300 restaurants in 11 countries throughout the Middle East, Turkey and Greece.
 
In addition, Fenton served in numerous operations and leadership positions in Asia, Poland, Central Europe, and the U.S.
 
Complete biographical information for Fenton is available through McDonald's Global News Center at http://www.aboutmcdonalds.com/mcd/our_company/bios.html
.
 
About McDonalds
McDonald's is the world's leading global foodservice retailer with more than 33,500 locations serving approximately 68 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80 percent of McDonald's restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women. To learn more about the company, please visit www.aboutmcdonalds.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2


