FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20120723081335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 23, 2012, McDonald's Corporation (the "Company") issued an investor release reporting the Company's results for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the related investor release is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also filed herewith and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is supplemental information for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012. The information under this Item 2.02, including such Exhibits, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonald's Corporation today announced results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012. In constant currencies, the Company posted higher revenues, operating income and earnings per share compared with the prior year. On an as reported basis, operating income and earnings per share decreased due to the impact of foreign currency translation.
"McDonald's global comparable sales remained solid for the quarter while overall results reflected the slowing global economy, persistent economic headwinds and the investments we've made to enhance restaurant operations and provide customers the everyday value they have come to expect from McDonald's," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson. "Our System alignment and ongoing commitment to our global priorities of optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our brand will help us navigate the current environment as we continue to build our business and our brand. As we begin the third quarter, global comparable sales for July are expected to be positive, but less than second quarter."
Second Quarter highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
McDonald's U.S. generated comparable sales growth of 3.6% for the quarter leveraging the strength of its everyday value offerings, menu variety, convenience, and the enhanced customer experience due to reimaged restaurants. Top-line performance benefited from the ongoing popularity of McDonald's classic core favorites and new additions to the McCaf beverage line-up, despite broad competitive activity. Operating income for the quarter increased 2%.
For the quarter, Europe delivered comparable sales growth of 3.8% while operating income decreased 3% (increased 8% in constant currencies). Ongoing strength in the U.K. and Russia led the segment's comparable sales and constant currency operating income growth, with France and Germany also contributing. Reinvigorated everyday affordability options, ongoing premium product innovation and restaurant reimaging were key sales drivers for the quarter.
Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) posted a modest comparable sales increase of 0.9% for the quarter. Solid performance in Australia and China, partly driven by positive consumer response to value platforms, was offset by weakness in Japan. For the quarter, APMEA's operating income decreased 2% (increased 1% in constant currencies).
Don Thompson concluded, "McDonald's has a resilient business model, strong System alignment around the Plan to Win and experience in a variety of economic cycles. While the environment has become more challenging, we continue to see significant opportunities to further differentiate and grow the McDonald's brand. We have the resources and discipline to invest for the long-term benefit of our System and our shareholders."
KEY HIGHLIGHTS  CONSOLIDATED
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE TERMS AS USED THROUGHOUT THIS RELEASE
Comparable sales represent sales at all restaurants and comparable guest counts represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Management reviews the increase or decrease in comparable sales and comparable guest counts compared with the same period in the prior year to assess business trends. The number of weekdays and weekend days, referred to as the calendar shift/trading day adjustment, can impact comparable sales and guest counts. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts.
Information in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends.
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS
This press release should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.2 in the Company's Form 8-K filing for supplemental information related to the Company's results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012.
McDonald's Corporation will broadcast its investor conference call live over the Internet at 10:00 a.m. Central Time on July 23, 2012. A link to the live webcast will be available at . There will also be an archived webcast and podcast available for a limited time.
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
The Company plans to release July 2012 sales information on August 8, 2012.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
n/m Not meaningful
 
n/m Not meaningful

Exhibit 99.2
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
The purpose of this exhibit is to provide additional information related to the results of McDonald's Corporation for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012, hereafter referred to as the "quarter" and "year". This exhibit should be read in conjunction with Exhibit 99.1.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald's mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and bases incentive compensation plans on these results because they believe this better represents the Company's underlying business trends. Results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (also referred to as constant currency) are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates.
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Dollars in millions, except per share data
 
 
 
Foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results for the quarter and year primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, along with most other currencies.
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share
For the quarter, net income decreased 4% (increased 1% in constant currencies) to $1,347.0 million and diluted earnings per share decreased 2% (increased 3% in constant currencies) to $1.32. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.07 per share on diluted earnings per share.
For the year, net income was relatively flat (increased 3% in constant currencies) at $2,613.7 million and diluted earnings per share increased 2% (6% in constant currencies) to $2.54. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.10 per share on diluted earnings per share.
 
For the quarter and year, net income and diluted earnings per share growth in constant currencies were positively impacted by franchised margin dollars and a decrease in diluted weighted average shares outstanding, partly offset by a higher effective income tax rate and higher selling, general and administrative expenses.
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 9.4 million shares of its stock for $856.2 million, bringing total repurchases for the year to 17.5 million shares or $1.7 billion, and paid a quarterly dividend of $0.70 per share or $709.3 million, bringing the total dividends paid for the year to $1.4 billion.
Revenues
Revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales and generally include initial fees.
REVENUES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable sales is a key performance indicator used within the retail industry and is reviewed by management to assess business trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales represent the percent change in constant currency sales from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix.
COMPARABLE SALES
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present Systemwide sales growth rates and franchised sales. Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
 
 
 
FRANCHISED SALES
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Margins
FRANCHISED AND COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT MARGINS
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents Company-operated restaurant margin components as a percent of sales.
CONSOLIDATED COMPANY-OPERATED RESTAURANT EXPENSES AND MARGINS AS A PERCENT OF SALES
 
Selling, General & Administrative Expenses
 
 
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Income
OPERATING INCOME
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for the year 2012 and 2011 was 30.6% and 30.8%, respectively.
Combined Operating Margin:
Interest Expense
 
 
Nonoperating (Income) Expense, Net
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Dollars in millions
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Outlook
While the Company does not provide specific guidance on earnings per share, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restaurant Information
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
 
SYSTEMWIDE RESTAURANTS BY TYPE
 
 
 
 
Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe" and "plan." They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements.
Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been contracting in many markets, including some major markets, due to unfavorable economic conditions, and this is expected to continue. Persistently high unemployment rates in many markets have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with pressure on labor and occupancy costs and volatility in commodity prices, as well as aggressive competitive activity, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and are expected to continue to pressure margins during 2012 in all operating segments. We have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food "from field to front counter," as well as industry marketing practices.
These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.
Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win.
The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and resultspeople, products, place, price and promotion. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the prolonged challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results.
Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can also vary substantially by market. The current global environment has been characterized by persistently weak economies, high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. Concerns about the ongoing Eurozone sovereign debt issues continue to affect both Europe and world markets. Widespread austerity measures in Europe are expected to continue to adversely affect consumer confidence, purchasing power and spending. This environment has also adversely affected business confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. These unfavorable conditions are expected to persist and to continue to affect sales in some of our markets or dayparts within some markets. To mitigate the impact of these conditions, we are continuing our focus on value as a driver of guest counts through menu, pricing and promotional actions. These actions have adversely affected our margin percent in some markets, which may continue. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways.
Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.
Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully.
 



