FILE:MCD/MCD-8K-20121109145745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 8, 2012, McDonalds Corporation (the Company) issued an Investor Release reporting the Companys October 2012 sales.  The Investor Release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is attached hereto.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
 
OAK BROOK, IL  McDonalds Corporation today announced that global comparable sales decreased 1.8% in October.  Performance by segment was as follows:
 
 
 The McDonalds System remains focused on serving the evolving needs of our more than 69 million customers daily, said McDonalds President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson.  Though Octobers sales results reflect the pervasive challenges of todays global marketplace, I am confident that our strategies and the adjustments we are making in response to the current business headwinds will build sales momentum and drive sustained, profitable growth.
   
 In October, U.S. comparable sales decreased 2.2%.  Modest consumer demand and heightened competitive activity offset the impact of local Dollar Menu advertising, the Monopoly promotion, and the recent launch of the Cheddar Bacon Onion premium sandwiches.  Moving forward, the U.S. remains focused on enhancing its value leadership position by balancing strong everyday value messaging with affordable premium menu options.
   
 In Europe, comparable sales declined 2.2% as positive results in the U.K. were offset by declines across many markets.  Amid the segments ongoing economic uncertainty, Europe is reinvigorating its value offerings through increased advertising and new meal combinations at various price tiers, featuring core and premium menu items, and enhancing the restaurant experience to attract more customers.
   
 In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), Octobers comparable sales declined 2.4% with negative results in Japan, Australia and other markets, including China.  Looking ahead, APMEA seeks to further differentiate the McDonalds experience through unique daypart value platforms, locally-relevant menu choices and unmatched customer conveniences.
   
 
 
 
 
            Systemwide sales for the month decreased 0.8% and increased 0.6% in constant currencies.
 
 
                      * Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa
 
Definitions
Upcoming Communications
   
 Don Thompson, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Pete Bensen, Chief Financial Officer will participate in the Morgan Stanley Global Consumer Conference at 8:35 a.m. (Eastern Time) on November 13, 2012. This presentation will be webcast live and available for replay for a limited time thereafter at
   
,
www.investor.mcdonalds.com
.
 
 
 
 McDonalds is the worlds leading global foodservice retailer with more than 34,000 locations serving more than 69 million customers in 119 countries each day. More than 80% of McDonalds restaurants worldwide are owned and operated by independent local men and women.
   
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 This release contains certain forward-looking statements, which reflect managements expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as its annual and quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K.
   
 


