ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in connection with the "Selected Financial Data" and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Effective on the date of demutualization, the consolidated financial statements of Prudential Insurance for financial statement periods as of and ended prior to the demutualization became the historical Consolidated Financial Statements of Prudential Financial. Demutualization and Related Transactions On the date of demutualization, Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. On that date, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential Financials Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance. In the aggregate, eligible policyholders received 457.1 million shares of Common Stock, the right to receive cash totaling $3,487 million, including $340 million to former Canadian branch policyholders, and policy credits totaling $1,042 million in the demutualization. In addition, two closed blocks, as discussed below, were established for the benefit of certain participating individual life insurance policies and annuities issued by Prudential Insurance and its Canadian branch. On the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of 110.0 million shares of its Common Stock at an initial public offering price of $27.50 per share, and on December 21, 2001, Prudential Financial issued an additional 16.5 million shares of Common Stock as a result of the exercise of the over allotment option granted to underwriters in the initial public offering. Also on the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed the sale, through a private placement, of 2.0 million shares of Class B Stock, a separate class of common stock, at a price of $87.50 per share. The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. Collectively, the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are referred to as the "Businesses." In addition, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial issued 13.8 million 6.75% equity security units for gross proceeds of $690 million, including as a component thereof redeemable capital securities of Prudential Financial Capital Trust I, a statutory business trust that is consolidated in our financial statements. Furthermore, Prudential Holdings, LLC ("PHLCC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes (the "IHC debt"), a portion of which were insured by a bond insurer, as discussed below. Concurrent with the demutualization, Prudential Insurance completed a corporate reorganization whereby various subsidiaries (and certain related assets and liabilities) of Prudential Insurance were dividended (or "destacked") so that they became wholly owned subsidiaries of Prudential Financial rather than of Prudential Insurance. The subsidiaries distributed by Prudential Insurance to Prudential Financial included its property and casualty insurance companies, its principal securities brokerage companies, its international insurance companies, its principal asset management operations, its international securities and investments operations, its domestic banking operations and its residential real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services operations. The Plan of Reorganization required us to establish and operate a mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of policies included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. On January 22, 2002, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of its Common Stock. The timing and amount of any purchases of Common Stock under this authorization will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and such purchases may be effected by market or negotiated transactions, including programs adopted under Rule 10b5 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 72 Overview Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business Financial Services Businesses We refer to the businesses in our four operating divisions and our Corporate and Other operations, collectively, as our Financial Services Businesses. The U.S. Consumer division consists of our Individual Life Insurance, Private Client Group, Retail Investments and Property and Casualty Insurance segments. The Employee Benefits division consists of our Group Insurance and Other Employee Benefits segments. The International division consists of our International Insurance and International Securities and Investments segments. The Asset Management division consists of our Investment Management and Advisory Services and Other Asset Management segments. We also have Corporate and Other operations, which contain corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to the business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that we have divested or placed in wind down status (other than our divested healthcare business, which is treated as a discontinued operation). The principal corporate items are the expense of corporate management and earnings on equity not allocated to our businesses. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on its use of financing and reflect financing costs in each segments results. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of equity which management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. Closed Block Business Effective with the date of demutualization, we established the Closed Block Business. For periods prior to the date of demutualization, the results of the Closed Block Business are those of our former Traditional Participating Products segment. Upon the establishment of the Closed Block Business, we transferred $5.6 billion of net assets previously associated with the Traditional Participating Products segment, including the majority of the net proceeds of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt issuances, to the Financial Services Businesses. This capital was initially allocated to our Corporate and Other operations as of the date of demutualization. As a result, adjusted operating income of the Closed Block Business does not include returns on these net assets, which were historically included in adjusted operating income of the Traditional Participating Products segment. In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our individual in force participating products were segregated, together with assets which will be used exclusively for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the "Closed Block." We selected the amount and type of Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities included in the Closed Block so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, policyholders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the policies included within the Closed Block. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. A minor portion of our former Traditional Participating Products segment, which included the policies now included in the Closed Block Business prior to our demutualization, consisted of other traditional insurance products that were not included in the Closed Block. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block as well as the Surplus and Related Assets, deferred policy acquisition costs, other assets and the IHC debt. We allocated the net proceeds from the issuance of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment 73 contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we report results of the Closed Block Business, including interest expenses associated with the IHC debt. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management fees from insurance and investment products; commissions and other revenues from securities brokerage transactions; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance, group life and disability insurance and automobile and homeowners insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the sale and servicing of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets, and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: . our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products gaining market acceptance on a timely basis; . our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; . our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products; . our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; . our management of our exposure to catastrophic and other losses on our property and casualty insurance products; . our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; . our returns on invested assets, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; . our ability to earn commissions and fees from the sale and servicing of mutual funds, annuities, defined contribution and other investment products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the expense of providing such services; . the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; . our ability to generate commissions and fees from securities activities at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the expenses of providing such services; and . our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation. In addition, factors such as regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange rates, securities market conditions and general economic conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. 74 Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. Following the demutualization, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. The Financial Services Businesses include the capital previously included in the Traditional Participating Products segment in excess of the amount necessary to support the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses also includes other traditional insurance products previously included in the Traditional Participating Products segment but which are not included in the Closed Block. The Class B Stock reflects the financial performance of our Closed Block Business. In February 1998, we announced our intention to seek legislation that would permit our demutualization. The publicity about our possible demutualization may have contributed to improvements in our sales, our persistency experience or both in a number of product lines since that time, although we cannot be certain of this. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions. If management determines, as a result of its consideration of facts and circumstances, that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements may change significantly. The following sections discuss accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Valuation of Investments The major portion of our investments are recorded at fair value in the statements of financial position. Fair values are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services, when available. However, when such information is not available, for example, with respect to private placement fixed maturity securities, fair value is estimated, typically by using a discounted cash flow model, which considers current market credit spreads for publicly traded issues with similar terms by companies of comparable credit quality. Consequently, changes in estimated future cash flows or in our assessment of the issuers credit quality will result in changes in carrying value. For fixed maturities and equity securities classified as available for sale, the impact of such changes is recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of equity. However, the carrying value of these securities is written down to estimated fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other than temporary, and we record the corresponding impairment loss in "Realized investment gains (losses), net" in the statements of operations. The factors we consider to determine if an impairment loss is warranted are discussed more fully in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The level of impairment losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. "Commercial loans" are carried at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses. This allowance includes a loan specific portion as well as a portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses. The loan specific portion is based on managements judgment as to ultimate collectibility of loan principal. The portfolio reserve is based on a number of factors, such as historical experience and portfolio diversification. Similar to impairment losses discussed above, the allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. Policyholder Liabilities and Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The liability for "Future policy benefits" is the largest liability included in our statements of financial position. This liability is primarily comprised of the present value of estimated future payments to holders of life insurance and annuity products where the timing and amount of payment depends on policyholder mortality, surrender or retirement experience. For traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block 75 Business, the mortality and interest rate assumptions we apply are those used to calculate the policies guaranteed cash surrender values. For life insurance and annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses, expected mortality is generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables. Interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality and interest rate assumptions are "locked in" upon the issuance of new insurance or annuity business with fixed and guaranteed terms, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. For example, in 2000 we restructured the portfolio that supports the structured settlement products within our Other Employee Benefits segment to reduce the emphasis on equity investments, which in turn lowered our expected future investment returns. As a result, we recorded a charge to establish a premium deficiency reserve for these products. Our liability for "Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses" includes estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported ("IBNR") as of the balance sheet date, primarily attributable to our Property and Casualty Insurance segment and the group disability products within our Group Insurance segment. These estimates, and estimates of the amounts of loss we will ultimately incur on reported claims, which are based in part on our historical experience, are regularly adjusted to reflect actual claims experience. When actual experience differs from our previous estimate, the resulting difference will be included in our reported results for the period of the change in estimate. On an ongoing basis, trends in actual experience are a significant factor in the determination of claim reserve levels. In recent years, actual claims experience with respect to our automobile insurance business within our Property and Casualty Insurance segment has been more favorable than the assumptions we used in originally establishing the reserves for these claims, which resulted in a benefit to adjusted operating income for these years due to reserve releases, although we do not anticipate a comparable benefit in 2002. Actual claims experience can also be less favorable than that assumed in establishing reserves, which can require a charge to earnings to increase reserves. For example, we recorded a charge in 1999 with respect to our discontinued healthcare business, increasing the loss we had initially recorded in 1998 in connection with the sale of the business, as a result of adverse claims experience subsequent to our initial estimate of the required reserves. For most life insurance and annuity products that we sell, we defer costs that vary with and are related primarily to the production of new business to the extent these costs are deemed recoverable from future profits, and we record these costs as an asset known as "Deferred policy acquisition costs" or "DAC" in the statements of financial position. We amortize this DAC asset over the expected lives of the contracts, based on the level and timing of either estimated profits or premiums, depending on the type of contract. For products with amortization based on future premiums, the amortization rate is locked in when the product is sold. However, for products with amortization based on estimated profits, the amortization rate is periodically updated to reflect current period experience or changes in assumptions that affect future profitability, such as lapse rates, investment returns, mortality experience, expense margins and surrender charges. These changes result in adjustments to DAC balances in the period that we change our assumptions as well as changes in prospective DAC amortization. For example, adverse market conditions in 2001 resulted in declines in the market values of assets supporting our variable life insurance and annuity products, which in turn resulted in lower expectations regarding our estimated future gross profits from fee based income. As a result, we recorded a higher level of DAC amortization in 2001 for these products. DAC is also subject to periodic recoverability testing. Reserves For Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Another example is the actual execution of a definitive management commitment to exit or restructure a business. When management formally commits to such an action, reserves are established based on the estimated cost of executing the action. These would typically include severance and employee benefit costs, facilities closure costs, and certain other direct incremental costs. For example, we established such reserves in connection with our disposition of our former healthcare business (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the restructuring of the capital markets business of Prudential Securities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The initial 76 establishment of these reserves reflected managements best estimate of the ultimate costs. Our results for subsequent periods reflected changes in these estimates to the extent that the actual costs of carrying out the plans were different from our original estimates. Other Significant Estimates In addition to the items discussed above, the application of GAAP requires management to make other estimates and assumptions. For example, accounting for pension and other postretirement and postemployment benefits requires estimates of future returns on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. These are discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Another example is the recognition of deferred tax assets, which depends on managements assumption that future earnings will be sufficient to realize the deferred benefit. This is discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Results of Operations In managing our business, we analyze our operating performance by separately considering our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. In addition, within the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our operating performance using a non GAAP measure we call "adjusted operating income". Prior to the date of demutualization, we also analyzed results of our Traditional Participating Products segment based on this non GAAP measure. We calculate adjusted operating income by adjusting our income from continuing operations before income taxes to exclude certain items. The items excluded are: . realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges; . sales practices remedies and costs; . the gains, losses and contribution to income/loss of divested businesses that we have sold but that do not qualify for "discontinued operations" accounting treatment under GAAP; and . demutualization costs and expenses. Wind down businesses that we have not divested remain in adjusted operating income. We exclude our discontinued healthcare operations from income from continuing operations before income taxes. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. You should not view adjusted operating income as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and you should note that our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. We exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, from adjusted operating income, because the timing of transactions resulting in recognition of gains or losses is largely at our discretion and the amount of these gains or losses is heavily influenced by and fluctuates in part according to the availability of market opportunities. Including the fluctuating effects of these transactions could distort trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses. We exclude sales practices remedies and costs because they relate to a substantial and identifiable non recurring event. We exclude the gains and losses and contribution to income/loss of divested businesses because, as a result of our decision to dispose of these businesses, these results are not relevant to the profitability of our ongoing operations and could distort the trends associated with our ongoing operations. We also exclude demutualization costs and expenses because they are directly related to our demutualization and could distort the trends associated with our business operations. In the discussion below of our consolidated results of operations, we separately discuss income from continuing operations before income taxes and adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses, as well as the divisions thereof and Corporate and Other operations, and the Closed Block Business. We also discuss the items excluded from adjusted operating income, i.e., realized investment gains, sales practices remedies and costs, demutualization costs and expenses and divested businesses, as well as items not included in income from continuing operations before taxes, i.e., taxes and discontinued operations. Realized investment gains and losses are allocated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Sales practices remedies and costs and divested businesses are allocated entirely to the Financial Services Businesses. For purposes of analyzing our results, taxes and discontinued operations are not allocated to our segments or divisions. Following this consolidated discussion, you will find a detailed discussion of our results of operations by division and by the segments of each division, as well as the Closed Block Business. 77 Net Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. On a consolidated basis net income decreased $552 million from income of $398 million in 2000 to a loss of $154 million in 2001. The decrease reflects a $954 million decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes, partially offset by a $463 million decrease in the related provision for income taxes as discussed below under " Taxes." Our $154 million net loss in 2001 included a net loss of $506 million for the fourth quarter of 2001. The $506 million net loss reflects a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $609 million, including net realized investment losses of $435 million, demutualization costs and expenses of $389 million, and adjusted operating income of $320 million. The $954 million decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes resulted from a $142 million decrease from the Financial Services Businesses and a $812 million decrease from the Closed Block Business. The $142 million decrease from the Financial Services Businesses came primarily from a $534 million decline from our U.S. Consumer division, a $244 million decline from our Employee Benefits division, and an $66 million decline from our Asset Management division, partially offset by an increase of $159 million from our International division and a $543 million reduction in losses from Corporate and Other operations. The $534 million decline from our U.S. Consumer division, the $244 million decline from our Employee Benefits division and the $66 million decline from our Asset Management division came primarily from decreases in adjusted operating income. The $159 million increase from our International division came from an increase in adjusted operating income. Results for our International division include the results of Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. ("Gibraltar Life"), which we acquired in April 2001, from April 2, 2001 through November 30, 2001. The $543 million reduction in losses from Corporate and Other operations came primarily from a $467 million increase in realized investment gains, net of losses, and a $489 million decrease in losses from divested businesses which were partially offset by a $445 million increase in demutualization costs and expenses and a $32 million improvement in adjusted operating income. Net income on an equivalent share basis assumes that shares issued in the demutualization and the initial public offering were outstanding for all periods and does not reflect adjustments to earnings for demutualization or related transactions. Net income per equivalent share of Common Stock, which reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, decreased to 52 cents per equivalent Common Share for the year ended December 31, 2001, from 53 cents per equivalent Common Share for the year ended December 31, 2000. Also on an equivalent share basis, net income per equivalent share of the Class B Stock, which reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business, decreased to a loss of $228.00 per equivalent share of Class B Stock for the year ended December 31, 2001, from income of $43.50 per equivalent share of Class B Stock for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease in net income per equivalent share of the Common Stock and Class B Stock from 2000 to 2001 reflects the decline in net income of the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business as discussed above. See " Adjusted Operating Income" below for a discussion of the adjusted operating income results of our divisions, Corporate and Other operations and our Closed Block Business. See " Realized Investment Gains" below for a discussion of realized investment gains, net of losses, and charges related to net realized investment gains. Terrorist Attacks on the United States Our losses from insurance claims arising in connection with the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, after release of existing reserves and reinsurance recoveries, had a negative effect on adjusted operating income and income from continuing operations before income taxes of approximately $37 million, and on net income of approximately $23 million, for 2001. These insurance losses are based on gross losses of approximately $172 million from group life, individual life, and property and casualty insurance claims. Approximately $27 million of the negative impact on adjusted operating income and income from continuing operations before income taxes related to the Financial Services Businesses, primarily in the Individual Life Insurance segment. The remainder of the losses related to the Closed Block Business. We suffered no material injury to our personnel or properties used in our business operations from the attacks. 78 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Net income decreased $415 million, or 51%, from $813 million in 1999 to $398 million in 2000. This decrease reflects a $1.528 billion decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes, partially offset by a $636 million decrease in the related provision for income taxes as discussed below under " Taxes." Additionally, net income for 2000 included $77 million of income resulting from a reduction in our loss on disposal of our discontinued healthcare operations, while 1999 net income included a $400 million increase in our loss on disposal of these operations, as discussed below under " Discontinued Operations." The $1.528 billion decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes resulted from a $1.377 billion decrease from the Financial Services Businesses and a $151 million decrease from the Closed Block Business. The $1.377 billion decrease from the Financial Services Businesses came primarily from a $1.335 billion decline from Corporate and Other operations and a $216 million decline from our Employee Benefits division, partially offset by an $85 million increase from our U.S. Consumer division and a $65 million increase from our International division. The $1.335 billion decline from Corporate and Other operations came primarily from a $637 million decline in realized investment gains, net of losses, and from a $643 million decline from the former lead managed underwriting and institutional fixed income businesses of Prudential Securities, which we include in "divested businesses." The $216 million decline from our Employee Benefits division came primarily from a $203 million decline in realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges. The $85 million increase from our U.S. Consumer division came primarily from a $73 million increase in adjusted operating income. The $65 million increase from our International division reflected an $89 million increase in adjusted operating income. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. On a consolidated basis, adjusted operating income decreased $569 million, or 25%, from $2.268 billion for 2000 to $1.699 billion for 2001. Our adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of 2001 was $320 million, reflecting adjusted operating income of $173 million for the Financial Services Businesses and $147 million for the Closed Block Business. Adjusted operating income in the Financial Services Businesses for the fourth quarter of 2001 reflected declines in results in the U.S. Consumer and Employee Benefits divisions compared to prior periods of 2001. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2001 came from a $458 million decrease from the Financial Services Businesses, and a $111 million decrease from the Closed Block Business. Adjusted operating income of our Financial Services Businesses for 2001 includes $262 million, which represents Gibraltar Lifes results from April 2, 2001 through November 30, 2001. Adjusted operating income of our Financial Services Businesses decreased $458 million, or 27%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came primarily from decreases of $430 million from our U.S. Consumer division and $204 million from our Employee Benefits division, partially offset by a $201 million increase in adjusted operating income from our International division, including the $262 million contribution of Gibraltar Life in 2001. The $430 million decrease in adjusted operating income from our U.S. Consumer division came primarily from a $476 million decrease from the Private Client Group segment. The $204 million decrease in adjusted operating income from our Employee Benefits division came from declines in both segments in the division. Adjusted operating income of the Closed Block Business decreased $111 million, or 20%, from 2000 to 2001, primarily from a $144 million reserve for unreported death claims and related expenses and a decline in net investment income resulting from the transfer of assets previously associated with our Traditional Participating Products segment to the Financial Services Businesses in connection with the establishment of the Closed Block Business on the date of demutualization. These declines were partially offset by a reduction in the charge for policyholder dividends, which excludes the portion of the dividend related to net realized investment gains, a reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and a decline in operating expenses. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. On a consolidated basis, adjusted operating income increased $263 million, or 13%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came from a $231 million increase from the Closed Block Business and a $32 million increase from the Financial Services Businesses. 79 Adjusted operating income of our Financial Services Businesses increased $32 million, or 2%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came primarily from increases of $89 million from our International division and $73 million from our U.S. Consumer division, partially offset by a $141 million decrease from Corporate and Other operations. The $89 million increase in adjusted operating income from our International division came primarily from a $78 million increase from the International Insurance segment. The $73 million increase in adjusted operating income from our U.S. Consumer division came primarily from an increase of $65 million from the Retail Investments segment. The $141 million decrease from Corporate and Other operations came primarily from corporate level activities, which included a one time benefit of $114 million recognized in 1999 as a result of a reduction of recorded liabilities for our own employee benefits. Adjusted operating income of the Closed Block Business increased $231 million, or 73%, from 1999 to 2000, primarily as a result of an increase in investment income net of interest expense and a decline in operating expenses. Realized Investment Gains We have frequently used an active management strategy for a significant portion of our public fixed maturity investment portfolio to maximize the overall return on our investments, subject to our adjusted operating income objectives. The implementation of this strategy resulted in significant realized investment losses in 2000 and 1999. When applied during a period of generally declining interest rates, we expect that using this strategy will result in lower investment income partially offset by realized investment gains. Conversely, when applied during a period of generally rising interest rates, we expect that using this strategy will result in increased investment income offset by realized investment losses. The amount of our gains or losses also depends on relative value opportunities and other variables. In consideration of our adjusted operating income objectives, and other factors, we may choose, at times, to constrain our active management and, therefore, the magnitude of realized investment gains or losses. In addition, we require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayment levels are also driven by the interest rate environment and other factors not within our control. The prepayment of private fixed maturities we held contributed realized investment gains of $155 million in the year ended December 31, 2001, $74 million in 2000 and $155 million in 1999. Realized investment gains, net of losses, also includes impairments on fixed income and equity assets, which we recognize on an ongoing basis. The level of impairments generally reflects economic conditions, and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. We use derivative contracts to hedge the risk that changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates will affect the market value of certain investments. The vast majority of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily treat the underlying assets the same way. Accordingly, our hedging activities contribute significantly to fluctuations in realized investment gains and losses. The comparisons below discuss realized investment gains net of losses and related charges. These charges relate to policyholder dividends, DAC, and reserves for future policy benefits. Net realized investment gains is one of the elements that we consider in establishing the domestic dividend scale and in providing for dividends to Gibraltar Life policyholders, and the related charge for dividends to policyholders represents the estimated portion of our expense charge for policyholder dividends that is attributable to net realized investment gains that we consider in determining our dividend scale and the Gibraltar Life dividends. See " Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Division and Closed Block Business" below. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs for interest sensitive products based on estimated gross profits, which include net realized investment gains on the underlying invested assets, and the related charge for amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs represents the amortization related to net realized investment gains. We adjust the reserves for some of our policies when cash flows related to these policies are affected by net realized investment gains, and the related charge for reserves for future policy benefits represents that adjustment. The changes in these related charges from one period to another may be disproportionate to the changes in realized investment gains, net of 80 losses, because the indicated reserve adjustments relate to realized investment gains, but not losses, evaluated over several periods, and because realized investment gains and losses are reflected in the dividend scale over a number of years. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. For the Financial Services Businesses, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, increased $272 million, from a net loss of $408 million in 2000 to a net loss of $136 million in 2001. The net realized investment loss of the Financial Services Businesses for 2001 reflected impairments recognized of $557 million, and $196 million of losses on disposal of substantially all of the Enron holdings of the Financial Services Businesses. For the Closed Block Business, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, declined $701 million, from a net loss of $354 million in 2000 to a net loss of $1.055 billion in 2001. The net realized investment loss of the Closed Block Business for 2001 reflected impairments recognized of $475 million, and $160 million of losses on disposal of substantially all of the Enron holdings of the Closed Block Business. On a consolidated basis, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, declined $429 million, from a net loss of $762 million in 2000 to a net loss of $1.191 billion in 2001. Realized investment losses, net of gains but excluding related charges, declined $417 million, from a net loss of $288 million in 2000 to a net loss of $705 million in 2001. Charges related to net realized investment gains and losses amounted to $474 million in 2000 and $486 million in 2001. These charges did not change proportionately with the change in realized investment gains, net of losses, from 2000 to 2001 for the reasons described above. On a consolidated basis, we realized net losses of $639 million on fixed maturity investments in 2001, compared to net losses of $ 1.066 billion in 2000. During 2001, we recognized impairments on fixed maturities totaling $777 million and realized additional losses of $356 million on the sale of substantially all of our Enron holdings. These impairments and losses were partially offset by realized gains of $494 million primarily from sales and prepayments of fixed maturities in an environment of lower interest rates than when the securities were purchased. The net losses in 2000 came primarily from fixed maturity investment sales in an environment of higher interest rates than those when the securities were purchased as well as impairments we recorded on fixed maturity investments totaling $540 million. The effect of economic and market conditions is uncertain and could result in additional impairments. We realized net losses on equity securities of $245 million in 2001, compared to net gains of $450 million in 2000, as we benefited in 2000 from more favorable equity market conditions, particularly during the early part of the year, and we disposed of appreciated equity securities as part of a portfolio rebalancing program. We recorded net investment gains on derivatives of $126 million in 2001 and $165 million in 2000. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. For the Financial Services Businesses, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, declined $852 million from a net gain of $444 million in 1999 to a net loss of $408 million in 2000. For the Closed Block Business, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, declined $382 million, from a net gain of $28 million in 1999 to a net loss of $354 million in 2000. On a consolidated basis, realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, declined $1.234 billion, from a net gain of $472 million in 1999 to a net loss of $762 million in 2000. Realized investment gains, net of losses but excluding related charges, declined $1.212 billion, from a net gain of $924 million in 1999 to a net loss of $288 million in 2000. Charges related to net realized investment gains and losses were essentially unchanged, amounting to $452 million in 1999 and $474 million in 2000. These charges did not change proportionately with the change in realized investment gains, net of losses, in 2000 from 1999 for the reasons described above. We realized losses of $1.066 billion on fixed maturity investments in 2000 and $557 million in 1999. These net realized losses reflected the impact of fixed maturity investment sales in environments of higher interest rates than those when the securities were purchased. The $509 million increase in fixed maturity realized losses in 2000 from 1999 came primarily from a portfolio strategy we implemented to sell securities with lower investment income yields underlying some of our long duration products in the Other Employee Benefits segment and in our debt financed corporate investment portfolio, reinvesting the proceeds in higher yielding securities, and from increased impairments in 2000. We recognized impairments on fixed maturity investments 81 of $540 million in 2000, primarily on publicly traded high yield and other corporate bonds, compared to $266 million in 1999. We realized net gains on sales of equity securities of $450 million in 2000, compared to $223 million in 1999. We realized net gains from disposals of direct real estate and real estate related joint ventures of $149 million in 2000 compared to $703 million in 1999, reflecting several major transactions that closed in 1999. We recorded net investment gains of $165 million on derivatives during 2000, compared to net gains of $305 million in 1999. Sales Practices Remedies and Costs As of December 31, 2001, we have provided $4.405 billion before tax, equivalent to $2.850 billion after tax, for both the cost of remedies to be provided to life insurance policyholders under the remediation process required under the principal sales practices class action settlement to which we are a party and additional sales practices costs and expenses. We believe we are fully reserved and we have not recorded any incremental charges since 1999. These costs include estimated administrative costs related to the remediation program and its accompanying alternative dispute resolution process, regulatory fines, penalties and related payments, litigation costs and settlements, including settlements associated with the resolution of claims of deceptive sales practices asserted by policyholders who elected to "opt out" of the class action settlement and litigate their claims against us separately, as well as other associated fees and expenses, which we refer to in the aggregate as additional sales practices costs. Charges associated with the cost of remedying policyholder claims and additional sales practices costs have been adjusted from year to year, beginning in 1996. No additional net charges have been recorded since 1999. The charges from year to year primarily reflected the increased availability over time of more specific information about the number of policyholder claims received and remedied, the accrued interest associated with claim relief, other factors affecting both the cost of remedies and the cost to us of administering the remediation program, and the cost of resolving "opt out" litigation as described above. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of these charges. The charges related to our estimated costs of sales practices remedies and additional sales practices costs and the related liability balances at the dates indicated are shown below. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 (in millions) Liability balance at beginning of period $253 $891 $3,058 $2,553 $ 963 $ Charges to expense, pre tax: Remedy costs......................... (54) (99) 510 1,640 410 Additional sales practices costs..... 54 199 640 390 715 Total charges to expense............. 100 1,150 2,030 1,125 Amounts paid or credited: Remedy costs......................... 71 448 1,708 147 Additional sales practices costs..... 130 190 559 498 440 162 Total amount paid or credited........ 201 638 2,267 645 440 162 Liability balance at end of period...... $ 52 $253 $ 891 $3,058 $2,553 $ 963 See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the life insurance sales practices litigation. While a portion of the sales practices remedies have been in the form of policy credits or enhancements, the major portion of the total cost for sales practices remedies and additional sales practices costs have resulted in cash disbursements. The cash outflows from these disbursements have reduced our invested assets and consequently have reduced our investment income. We included the investment income from the assets used to satisfy the sales practices remedies and additional sales practices costs prior to their disbursement in our adjusted operating income for Corporate and Other operations. The $4.4 billion of cash disbursements do not include the cash flow from surrenders associated with the implementation of the sales practices remediation program, which are discussed under " Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Division and Closed Block Business Closed Block Business Policy Surrender Experience." 82 Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations includes results from several businesses that we have divested but that under generally accepted accounting principles do not qualify for "discontinued operations" treatment in our income statement. Our results from divested businesses primarily relate to the former lead managed equity underwriting for corporate issuers and institutional fixed income businesses of Prudential Securities and the operations of Gibraltar Casualty Company, a commercial property and casualty insurer that we sold in September 2000, as well as obligations we retained or agreed to in the transactions to sell our other divested businesses. The lead managed equity underwriting for corporate issuers and institutional fixed income businesses of Prudential Securities recorded pre tax losses of $159 million in the year ended December 31, 2001, and $620 million in 2000, and pre tax income of $23 million in 1999. The losses in 2001 came primarily from deterioration in the value of collateralized receivables that we are in the process of liquidating, which are related to these businesses, and wind down costs. The losses from these operations in 2000 came primarily from charges of $476 million associated with our termination and wind down of these activities. Gibraltar Casualty recorded pre tax losses of $7 million in 2000 and $72 million in 1999. The 1999 losses are attributable to increased reserves for environmental and asbestos related claims resulting primarily from an increase in the number of lawsuits being filed against manufacturers of asbestos related products. The remainder of our results from divested businesses are attributable to our remaining obligations with respect to our divested residential mortgage banking business, a benefits plan administration business we sold in 1998, and a Canadian life insurance subsidiary that we sold in May 2000. Demutualization Costs and Expenses We incurred costs and expenses related to demutualization totaling $588 million in the year ended December 31, 2001, including $340 million of demutualization consideration paid to our former Canadian branch policyholders, $143 million in 2000, and $75 million in 1999. These costs and expenses are reported separately in our consolidated income statements within income from continuing operations before income taxes. Demutualization expenses consist primarily of the costs of engaging independent accounting, actuarial, investment banking, legal and other consultants to advise us and insurance regulators in the demutualization process and related matters as well as printing and postage for communication with policyholders. Taxes A provision of federal tax law applicable to mutual life insurance companies has resulted in significant fluctuations in our effective tax rate. This tax law requires adjustment to the deductible portion of policyholder dividends based on a complex multi year formula that compares the financial accounting earnings rates of mutual life insurance companies with those of stock life insurers. The actual rate to be applied to a particular tax year is determined by the IRS up to two years after the end of the tax year. Accordingly, for periods prior to our demutualization, we were required to estimate the current years rate in determining our tax provision for the current year for accounting purposes. When the actual rate was announced by the IRS, we recognized any difference between our estimated rate and the IRSs actual rate in that year. We are no longer subject to this tax after the demutualization. The impact of this tax law as reflected in reported results, including the current year estimate and adjustment of prior year estimates, constitutes the primary reason for the difference between our reported effective tax rates and the statutory rate of 35%. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded a net income tax benefit of $57 million in 2001 and an income tax provision of $406 million in 2000. The income tax benefit in 2001 represented 25% of our loss from continuing operations before income taxes, while the income tax provision in 2000 represented 56% of that years income from continuing operations before income taxes. The net income tax benefit in 2001 was primarily due to a $200 million reduction of the estimated liability for the mutual life insurance company tax, while the income tax provision in 2000 reflected a $100 million provision for this tax. The disparity between our effective tax rates in 2001 and 2000 and the application of the corporate income tax rate of 35% to our income or loss from continuing operations before income taxes is primarily a result of the mutual life insurance company tax and the inclusion of demutualization costs and expenses within income or loss from continuing operations before income taxes. Our income tax provisions amounted to $406 million for 2000 and $1.042 billion for 1999. The income tax provisions represented 56% of income from continuing operations before income taxes in 2000 and 46% of income from continuing operations before income taxes in 1999. This increase in the effective rate was due primarily to the mutual life insurance company tax discussed above and an increase in demutualization expenses. 83 Discontinued Operations In December 1998, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our healthcare operations as described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The sale was completed in August 1999. Net losses from these operations, after related income tax benefits, were $521 million in 1998, including a $223 million loss on disposal. We recognized an additional loss on disposal of these operations during 1999 amounting to $400 million after related tax benefits. Higher than anticipated operating losses prior to the closing date, resulting principally from adverse claims experience, and the impact of this experience on our evaluation of our obligations under our agreement to make payments to the purchaser of our healthcare operations if the medical loss ratio exceeds specified levels, caused the additional loss. In 2000, upon completion of the period covered by that agreement and comparing other costs we incurred related to the healthcare disposal to those estimated in 1998 and 1999, we reduced the loss on disposal by $77 million, after related income taxes. In 2001, we further reduced the loss on disposal by $16 million, after related income taxes, upon completing the negotiation of the final medical loss ratio settlement in December 2001. While we believe that, as of December 31, 2001, we have adequately reserved in all material respects for remaining costs and liabilities associated with our healthcare business, we might incur additional charges that might be material to our results of operations. 84 Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Division and Closed Block Business In managing our business, we analyze our operating performance using "adjusted operating income," which is a non GAAP measure that excludes certain items as described above under " Consolidated Results of Operations." The following table, prepared on that basis, sets forth the revenues, adjusted operating income and income from continuing operations before income taxes for each of our four divisions and for Corporate and Other operations, including consolidating adjustments, which together comprise our Financial Services Businesses, and for our Closed Block Business, for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, as well as their assets as of those dates. As of or for Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Revenues(1): Financial Services Businesses: U.S. Consumer............................................. $ 7,644 $ 8,026 $ 7,563 Employee Benefits......................................... 5,912 5,686 5,442 International............................................. 4,694 2,624 2,102 Asset Management.......................................... 1,272 1,344 1,141 Corporate and Other....................................... 103 205 509 Total Financial Services Businesses..................... 19,625 17,885 16,757 Closed Block Business (2).................................... 8,271 8,638 8,376 Total................................................... $ 27,896 $ 26,523 $ 25,133 Adjusted operating income(3): Financial Services Businesses: U.S. Consumer............................................. $ 310 $ 740 $ 667 Employee Benefits......................................... 183 387 400 International............................................. 523 322 233 Asset Management.......................................... 219 276 252 Corporate and Other....................................... 28 (4) 137 Total Financial Services Businesses..................... 1,263 1,721 1,689 Closed Block Business (2).................................... 436 547 316 Total................................................... $ 1,699 $ 2,268 $ 2,005 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes: Financial Services Businesses: U.S. Consumer............................................. $ 210 $ 744 $ 659 Employee Benefits......................................... 25 269 485 International............................................. 466 307 242 Asset Management.......................................... 211 277 253 Corporate and Other....................................... (520) (1,063) 272 Total Financial Services Businesses..................... 392 534 1,911 Closed Block Business (2).................................... (619) 193 344 Total................................................... $ (227) $ 727 $ 2,255 Assets: Financial Services Businesses: U.S. Consumer............................................. $ 71,231 $ 73,223 $ 78,235 Employee Benefits......................................... 72,767 75,817 73,955 International(4).......................................... 41,401 10,370 9,275 Asset Management.......................................... 28,357 30,602 25,558 Corporate and Other....................................... 17,549 12,814 29,498 Total Financial Services Businesses..................... 231,305 202,826 216,521 Closed Block Business (2).................................... 61,725 69,927 68,573 Total................................................... $293,030 $272,753 $285,094 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses, and revenues from divested businesses. (2) Amounts shown for the Closed Block Business represent results of the Traditional Participating Products segment for periods prior to the date of demutualization. (3) Adjusted operating income equals revenues as defined above in footnote (1) less benefits and expenses excluding (i) the impact of net realized investment gains on deferred acquisition cost amortization, reserves and dividends to policyholders; (ii) sales practices remedies and costs; (iii) the benefits and expenses from divested businesses; and (iv) demutualization costs and expenses. (4) Assets of our International division at December 31, 2001 include assets of Gibraltar Life, which we acquired in April 2001, amounting to $30.238 billion. 85 U.S. Consumer Division The U.S. Consumer division generates income from premiums, as well as fee based revenues and spread income, through the Individual Life Insurance, Retail Investments and Property and Casualty Insurance segments. Premiums and investment income are received by the Individual Life Insurance and Property and Casualty Insurance segments on insurance products and by the Retail Investments segment on some of its annuity products. Products and services that generate fee based revenue include mutual funds, variable annuities, variable life insurance and wrap fee products. The latter fee based revenues consist primarily of asset management fees, account servicing fees and risk charges. The Retail Investments segment receives fees and investment income from retail investment products. Additionally, the securities brokerage operations that account for the major portion of revenues of the Private Client Group segment generate revenues from client commissions, asset management and portfolio service fees, and net interest revenues derived primarily from margin lending to customers, as well as sales credits related to transactions with retail customers associated with equity and fixed income sales and trading operations. We also earn trading revenues from our fixed income trading operations which are incidental to our retail operations. We include fee based revenues in the line captioned "Commissions and other income" or "Policy charges and fee income" in our consolidated statements of operations. The Private Client Group segment also includes our consumer banking operations. We seek to earn spread income in our general account on various products. Spread income is the difference between our return on the investments supporting the products net of expenses and the amounts we credit to our contractholders. Products that generate spread income primarily include the general account insurance products of the Individual Life Insurance segment, and fixed annuities and the fixed rate option of variable annuities of the Retail Investments segment. We include revenues from these products, other than premiums received from policyholders, primarily in the line captioned "Net investment income" in our consolidated statements of operations. The Individual Life Insurance and Private Client Group segments pay the expenses of their own proprietary sales forces for distribution of products. Additionally, the Retail Investments segment pays the Individual Life Insurance and Private Client Group segments for distribution of its products by Prudential Agents and Financial Advisors. The Individual Life Insurance, Retail Investments and Property and Casualty Insurance segments also pay our Investment Management and Advisory Services segment for management of proprietary assets which include the general account investments that support our Individual Life Insurance, Retail Investments and Property and Casualty Insurance segments, as well as most of the assets supporting our separate account life insurance and annuity products such as variable life insurance and annuities. These fees result in expenses to the segments of the U.S. Consumer division and revenues to the Asset Management division. We reflect all of the intra company asset management services at rates that we determine with reference to market rates. In recent years, sales in our individual life insurance business, as measured by both number of policies and premiums, have generally declined or not grown significantly. This trend is due in part to a continuing decline in the number of Prudential Agents. We believe that the decline in Prudential Agents results, in part, from our implementation of higher productivity standards associated with measures we have taken to reduce the cost structure of our proprietary distribution channel. This trend in sales has had an adverse impact on premiums, primarily from new business, and adjusted operating income. We are seeking to improve performance by taking steps to refocus the Prudential Agent sales force on the mass affluent market and to continue to improve productivity of the proprietary distribution channel, and to expand third party distribution of our products. However, we cannot predict whether these steps will succeed or have the desired effects. Prior to 2001, we experienced net redemptions in our proprietary retail investment products due in substantial part to turnover among experienced Financial Advisors and our focus on the value style of investment management in our equity mutual funds. The impact of these outflows was partially offset by higher revenues resulting from market appreciation of remaining assets, which produced increases in assets under management in 1999 and 2000. Over the last several years, we began to diversify the focus of our investment products and we have been building investment manager choice into most of our Retail Investments products. This advised choice approach allows us to offer customers investment alternatives advised by third parties in our products and asset management styles that we might not otherwise offer. Our Retail Investments wrap fee assets increased to $19.6 billion at December 31, 2000, from $16.7 billion a year earlier and $11.5 billion at December 31, 1998. We believe these increases reflect increased marketplace emphasis on products that provide customers a broader 86 choice of investments. At December 31, 2001, wrap fee assets decreased to $18.0 billion, reflecting market value declines during 2001. We believe the continuing turnover among domestic Financial Advisors is due in part to the lack of a stock based compensation program. In 1999 this turnover increased due in part to greater industry competition for productive Financial Advisors. We have taken actions to stabilize the Financial Advisor force, including our implementation, effective January 1, 2000, of an equity market linked, voluntary long term deferred compensation plan, and our introduction of an aggressive recruiting effort targeting experienced Financial Advisors, including recruiting and retention incentives. We expect that these programs will contribute to improvement of our turnover rates over time, although there can be no assurance of this. We have taken actions to reduce the operating cost structures and overhead levels of the businesses of the U.S. Consumer division. In the Individual Life Insurance segment, a program to restructure our field management and agency structure resulted in a reduction in the number of sales territories, establishing a smaller number of larger field offices, and eliminated approximately 1,700 management and non agent positions. In the Private Client Group segment, we have taken actions in 2001 to reduce staffing levels, occupancy costs, and other overhead costs. We have also taken actions in the Property and Casualty Insurance segment to reduce staffing levels and overhead costs. While there can be no assurance that our anticipated cost reductions will be fully achieved, we believe that these initiatives will reduce operating expenses, excluding certain non interest expenses in the Private Client Group segment, below 2000 levels by more than $320 million on an annual basis in 2002, and that reduced expenses resulting from these initiatives will benefit results thereafter. Adjusted operating income of the U.S. Consumer division benefited in 2001 from a reduction in operating expenses, associated with these initiatives, of approximately $170 million as compared to 2000, primarily in the Individual Life Insurance segment. We believe that the remainder of the anticipated reduction in operating expenses will benefit adjusted operating income of the U.S. Consumer division in 2002 as compared to 2001. Expenses incurred to achieve these reductions were about $175 million in 2001. Most of our variable life insurance, variable annuity and wrap fee products include investment alternatives that are managed by third parties. The Individual Life Insurance and Retail Investments segments pay investment management fees to the third party managers for the funds invested through these non proprietary options. We also sponsor mutual funds that have third party advisors. Because of these arrangements, our assets under management and administration that are invested through non proprietary options and our proprietary funds that are managed by third parties may offer lower profitability than the assets we manage directly. 87 Division Results The following table and discussion present the U.S. Consumer divisions results based on our definition of adjusted operating income, which is a non GAAP measure, as well as income from continuing operations before income taxes, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. As shown below, adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. You should not view adjusted operating income as a substitute for income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP, and you should note that our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. We exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, from adjusted operating income because the timing of transactions resulting in recognition of gains or losses is largely at our discretion and the amount of these gains or losses is heavily influenced by and fluctuates in part according to the availability of market opportunities. Including the fluctuating effects of these transactions could distort trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Division operating results: Revenues(1)...... $7,644 $8,026 $7,563 Benefits and expenses(2)...... 7,334 7,286 6,896 Adjusted operating income........... $ 310 $ 740 $ 667 Adjusted operating income by segment: Individual Life Insurance........ $ 273 $ 114 $ 117 Private Client Group..... (239) 237 224 Retail Investments...... 181 239 174 Property and Casualty Insurance........ 95 150 152 Total.......... 310 740 667 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges: Realized investment gains (losses), net.............. (112) 2 (9) Related charges(3)....... 12 2 1 Total realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges........ (100) 4 (8) Income from continuing operations before income taxes............... $ 210 $ 744 $ 659 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude the impact of net realized investment gains on deferred acquisition cost amortization and reserves. (3) Related charges consist of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Reserves for future policy benefits............ $ (1) $ (4) $ Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs............... 13 6 1 Total............ $ 12 $ 2 $ 1 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our U.S. Consumer division decreased $430 million, or 58%, in 2001 from 2000. The decline resulted primarily from a decrease in adjusted operating income in our Private Client Group segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $534 million, or 72%, primarily as a result of the decrease in adjusted operating income. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our U.S. Consumer division increased $73 million, or 11%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came primarily from an increase in adjusted operating income from our Retail Investments segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased $85 million, or 13%, primarily as a result of the increase in adjusted operating income. 88 Individual Life Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)................. $1,919 $1,828 $1,703 Benefits and expenses....... 1,646 1,714 1,586 Adjusted operating income... $ 273 $ 114 $ 117 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $159 million in 2001 from 2000. The increase came primarily from a $183 million decrease in operating expenses. The decrease in operating expenses came primarily from savings that we have begun to realize from our field management and agency restructuring program as described above and lower program implementation costs, which amounted to $90 million in 2001 and $107 million in 2000. Implementation costs for this program were substantially completed in 2001. Additionally, in 2000 we recorded a $23 million one time increase in reserves related to a portion of our variable life insurance business in force. However, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $60 million in 2001 from 2000, and we recorded net losses of $25 million from insurance claims arising from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income was essentially unchanged in 2000 from 1999. Growth in our base of term products in force resulted in an increase in premium revenues, and investment income increased due to the larger base of general account assets and an increased investment yield. However, these increases were essentially offset by a one time increase in reserves related to a portion of our variable life insurance business in force. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased $91 million, or 5%, in 2001 from 2000. Premiums increased $117 million, or 43%, from $270 million in 2000 to $387 million in 2001, due to increased premiums on term insurance we issued, under policy provisions, to customers who previously had lapsing variable life insurance with us. Policy charges and fees amounted to $1.017 billion in 2001, essentially unchanged from $1.023 billion in 2000. Net investment income increased $17 million, or 5%, from $374 million in 2000 to $391 million in 2001, primarily from an increase in the base of general account invested assets. Other income decreased $37 million, or 23%, from $161 million in 2000 to $124 million in 2001, primarily as a result of a decline in sales of non Prudential products by our agents. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $125 million, or 7%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came primarily from a $58 million increase in net investment income and a $28 million increase in premiums. Premiums increased $28 million, or 12%, from $242 million in 1999 to $270 million in 2000. The increase came primarily from an increase in renewal premiums for our term products, reflecting the increased base of business in force. 89 Policy charges and fees amounted to $1.023 billion for 2000, relatively unchanged from $1.030 billion in 1999. Net investment income increased $58 million, or 18%, from $316 million in 1999 to $374 million in 2000. The increase resulted from an increase in the base of general account invested assets and a slight increase in investment yield. Benefits and Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $68 million, or 4%, in 2001 from 2000. A decrease of $183 million in operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, was partially offset by a $60 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and a $60 million increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves. Operating expenses decreased $183 million, from $761 million in 2000 to $578 million in 2001, primarily as a result of savings we began to realize from our program to restructure our field management and agency structure as described above and lower program implementation costs which amounted to $90 million in 2001 and $107 million in 2000. The implementation costs for this program were substantially completed in 2001. While there can be no assurance, based on our evaluation of results through 2001 we believe that these initiatives will reduce operating expenses below 2000 levels by approximately $120 million on an annual basis in 2002, including a reduction of about $30 million below the level of 2001, and that reduced expenses resulting from these initiatives will benefit results thereafter. In addition, we expect these initiatives to eliminate approximately $50 million of costs that would have been capitalized. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $60 million, from $172 million in 2000 to $232 million in 2001, primarily due to declines in market values of the underlying assets on which our fees are based. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves increased $60 million, from $628 million in 2000 to $688 million in 2001, primarily as a result of term insurance we issued under policy provisions to customers who previously had lapsing variable life insurance with us and insurance claims arising from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. In 2000, policyholder benefits and the related changes in reserves included a reserve increase related to a portion of our variable life insurance business as noted above amounting to $23 million. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $128 million, or 8%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came primarily from an increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves of $121 million, from $507 million in 1999 to $628 million in 2000, as a result of growth in the base of term insurance in force and aging of policies in force as well as the reserve increase related to a portion of our variable life insurance business as noted above amounting to $23 million. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, were essentially unchanged in 2000 from 1999. Operating expenses included severance, termination benefits, facilities closure and other costs that we incurred largely in connection with the implementation of the program to restructure our field management and agency structure described above. The expenses related to this program amounted to $107 million in 2000 and $116 million in 1999. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life Insurance segments sales, as measured by statutory first year premiums and deposits for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to revenues under GAAP. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze statutory first year premiums and deposits as well as revenues because statutory first year premiums and deposits measure the current sales performance of 90 the business unit, while revenues reflect, predominantly in our case, the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, as well as current sales. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Sales(1): Variable life(2)..................... $427 $328 $301 Term life............................ 43 59 74 Total.............................. $470 $387 $375 Sales by distribution channel(1): Prudential Agents.................... $218 $259 $287 Third party and other distributors... 252 128 88 Total.............................. $470 $387 $375 (1)Statutory first year premiums and deposits. (2)Includes universal life insurance products. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, as measured by statutory first year premiums, increased $83 million, or 21%, in 2001 from 2000. The increase came from a $157 million increase in the segments sales of corporate owned life insurance products, substantially all of which is sold by the PruSelect third party distribution channel. Inclusive of these corporate owned life insurance sales, which totaled $199 million for 2001 including a single $100 million sale, PruSelect accounted for 54% of the Individual Life Insurance segments sales in 2001, compared to 33% in 2000. Sales by the PruSelect channel, other than corporate owned life insurance, decreased $33 million, or 38%, in 2001 from 2000. We have begun to expand the focus of PruSelect, which has historically served intermediaries who provide insurance solutions in support of estate and wealth transfer planning for affluent individuals and corporate owned life insurance for businesses, toward the mass affluent market. We believe the 2001 sales results for the PruSelect channel for products other than corporate owned life insurance reflected both a reduced level of market demand for individual variable life insurance products during 2001 and our transition to the new focus, which included changes in our underwriting classifications and a reduction in our maximum insurance coverage on a single life. Additionally, we repriced certain term insurance products and introduced two new universal life insurance products in late 2001 to be offered by both the PruSelect distribution channel and Prudential Agents. While there can be no assurance, we believe these actions will result in more favorable risk adjusted return on business written and an opportunity to enhance sales in our selected markets. The increase in sales through PruSelect was partially offset by a decline in sales from Prudential Agents. The number of Prudential Agents declined to approximately 4,400 at December 31, 2001, from 6,100 at December 31, 2000, as we continued to take actions to increase the productivity standards required to continue agency contracts. Prudential Agent productivity increased slightly to $35,000 in 2001 from $34,700 in 2000. We have not implemented further increases in these productivity standards for periods subsequent to 2001. While there can be no assurance, we believe that maintenance of these standards at their current level will contribute to stabilization in the number of Prudential Agents. We measure Prudential Agent productivity as commissions on new sales of all products, not only life insurance, by Prudential Agents with us for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, as measured by statutory first year premiums, increased $12 million, or 3%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came from greater unscheduled premiums on variable life insurance products in 2000 and reflected a higher level of third party sales through our PruSelect third party distribution channel, which grew by $40 million, or 45%, in 2000 from 1999. PruSelect accounted for 33% of the Individual Life Insurance segments sales in 2000, compared to 23% of its sales in 1999. The increase in sales through PruSelect was partially offset by a decline in sales from Prudential Agents. We continued to take actions to improve Prudential Agent productivity. The number of Prudential Agents declined to approximately 6,100 at December 31, 2000 compared to approximately 7,800 one year earlier. However, Prudential Agent productivity increased 11%, from $31,300 for 1999 to $34,700 in 2000. 91 Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the Individual Life Insurance segments policy surrender experience for variable life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 ($ in millions) Cash value of surrenders................................................. $637 $641 $597 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances, and separate account balances 3.8% 3.7% 3.7% 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders and the level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances were relatively constant from 2000 to 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $44 million, or 7%, in 2000 from 1999. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account balances remained constant from 1999 to 2000. Private Client Group Operating Results The following table sets forth the Private Client Group segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Non interest revenues......................... $1,973 $2,468 $2,293 Net interest revenues......................... 243 299 269 Total revenues, net of interest expense..... 2,216 2,767 2,562 Total non interest expenses................... 2,455 2,530 2,338 Adjusted operating income..................... $ (239) $ 237 $ 224 Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. The Private Client Group segment reported a pre tax loss of $239 million, on an adjusted operating income basis, for 2001 compared to adjusted operating income of $237 million for 2000. The $476 million decline came primarily from a $433 million decrease from our domestic securities brokerage operations, which reported a loss of $243 million for 2001 compared to adjusted operating income of $190 million in 2000. These operations were adversely affected in 2001 by a decline in individual investor transaction volume and margin loan balances, which resulted in decreased commission and net interest revenues. These revenue declines were coupled with increased costs of recruiting and retaining Financial Advisors, including increased expenses relating to recruiting and retention incentives extended to some recently recruited experienced Financial Advisors. Additionally, we incurred costs of $65 million in 2001 from employee terminations associated with staff reductions, as well as branch closings and facilities consolidations. The remaining $43 million decrease in the segments adjusted operating income came from our consumer banking operations, which benefited in 2000 from the sale of a major portion of the consumer banks credit card receivables. The Private Client Group segment had a loss of $79 million, on an adjusted operating income basis, for the fourth quarter of 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $13 million, or 6%, from 1999 to 2000. Adjusted operating income from our consumer banking operations increased $27 million, primarily as a 92 result of the sale of a major portion of the consumer banks credit card receivables in 2000. Adjusted operating income from our domestic securities brokerage operations decreased $14 million, from $204 million in 1999 to $190 million in 2000. Revenues The following table sets forth the Private Client Group segments revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," by source for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Commissions.............................. $1,155 $1,561 $1,554 Fees..................................... 684 748 571 Other.................................... 134 159 168 Total non interest revenues............. 1,973 2,468 2,293 Net interest revenues.................... 243 299 269 Total revenues, net of interest expense. $2,216 $2,767 $2,562 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Total revenues, net of interest expense, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $551 million, or 20%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came primarily from a $498 million decline in revenues from our domestic securities brokerage operations, from $2.675 billion in 2000 to $2.177 billion in 2001. Commission revenues decreased $406 million, or 26%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came primarily from a $375 million decline in commissions from over the counter and listed equity securities transactions. Commission revenues were negatively affected in 2001 by less active securities markets and reduced retail transaction volume, and benefited in 2000 from exceptionally active over the counter equity markets and related retail transaction volume in the first four months of the year. Commission revenues accounted for 59% of total segment non interest revenues for 2001. Accordingly, we expect that a continuation of the level of securities market activity experienced in 2001, or a further downtrend in this activity, would continue to have a negative impact on our revenues and on the segments adjusted operating income, partially offset by planned expense reductions. Fee revenues, which include asset management and account service fees, declined $64 million, or 9%, from 2000 to 2001. The decline came from a decrease in revenues from wrap fee products, reflecting competitive pricing pressures as well as the negative impact of market value declines. The negative impact of market value declines on wrap fee and managed account assets under management essentially offset the impact of new assets gathered in these accounts. Additionally, the negative impact of market value declines on clients mutual funds, on which a portion of our fees are based, contributed to the decline in fee revenues. Fee revenues accounted for 35% of total non interest revenues of the domestic securities operations in 2001, compared to 31% in 2000, reflecting actions we have taken to increase the contribution of recurring revenues. These actions included enhanced marketing of fee based products and compensation incentives to Financial Advisors for sales of these products, as well as emphasis on financial planning in recruiting and training of Financial Advisors. Other revenues decreased $25 million, or 16%, from 2000 to 2001, primarily due to the sale of a major portion of the consumer banks credit card receivables in 2000. Net interest revenues decreased $56 million, or 19%, from 2000 to 2001, primarily as a result of a decrease in average customer margin lending balances of our domestic securities brokerage operations, related to the reduced level of individual investor activity. Average customer margin lending balances were $4.30 billion in 2001 compared to $6.54 billion in 2000 and amounted to $3.40 billion at December 31, 2001. Increased investment income on greater attributed capital partially offset the impact of lower average customer margin lending balances. The number of domestic retail Financial Advisors was 5,383 at December 31, 2001, a decrease of 9% from 5,906 at December 31, 2000. Approximately 90% of the decline came from Financial Advisors with less than 4 93 years industry experience with us, and reflected a decrease in our recruiting of inexperienced Financial Advisors to be trained by us. In response to recruiting efforts by our competitors, we introduced an aggressive recruiting effort targeting experienced Financial Advisors, including recruiting and retention incentives, and, as discussed above, an equity market linked voluntary long term deferred compensation plan to seek to enhance our Financial Advisor recruitment and retention efforts. Assets under management and client assets decreased $21 billion to $251 billion at December 31, 2001 from $272 billion at December 31, 2000, primarily as a result of overall market value declines. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Total revenues, net of interest expense, increased $205 million, or 8%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came primarily from our domestic securities brokerage operations, which recorded an increase of $202 million, or 8%, from $2.473 billion in 1999 to $2.675 billion in 2000. Commission revenues increased slightly in 2000 from 1999, as increases of $17 million from mutual funds and $13 million from equity securities transactions were partially offset by a decline in commissions from fixed income products and commodity transactions. While commission revenues from our securities brokerage operations benefited from active over the counter equity markets and increased transaction volume during the first four months of the year, commission revenues declined slightly during the May through December period of 2000 versus the same period of 1999, reflecting less active securities markets and reduced transaction volume. Fee revenues, comprised of asset management and account service fees, increased $177 million, or 31%, from 1999 to 2000. This increase resulted primarily from a $5.2 billion increase in wrap fee and managed account assets under management to $31.9 billion at December 31, 2000 from $26.7 billion a year earlier. Net interest revenues increased $30 million, or 11%, from 1999 to 2000. Substantially all of the increase came from our domestic securities brokerage operations, primarily from higher average customer margin lending balances, which increased from $5.06 billion in 1999 to $6.54 billion in 2000. Partially offsetting the increase in average customer margin lending balances was a decrease in the spread earned on these balances, reflecting competitive pressures on the rates charged to clients who buy securities on margin. The number of domestic Financial Advisors was 5,906 at December 31, 2000, a decrease of 3% from 6,072 a year earlier. Assets under management and client assets decreased $16 billion to $272 billion at December 31, 2000 from $288 billion a year earlier, primarily as a result of overall market value declines. Non Interest Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Total non interest expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $75 million from 2000 to 2001. Employee compensation and benefits at our domestic securities brokerage operation decreased due to the lower level of revenues and earnings in 2001, but the decrease was not proportional to the revenue decline largely due to the recruiting and retention incentives as described above as well as $41 million in employee termination costs associated with staff reductions in 2001. These recruiting and retention incentives will continue to be applicable and to adversely affect expense levels in future periods. The decrease in employee compensation and benefits was further offset by $24 million of costs we incurred to consolidate and close several retail branch and other locations during 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Total non interest expenses increased $192 million, or 8%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came primarily from employee compensation and benefits at our retail securities brokerage operations, which increased by $108 million, or 8%, due to higher commissions paid to Financial Advisors on higher fee and commission revenues, and higher incentive and other compensation, as well as higher costs to recruit and retain Financial Advisors. Additionally, other non interest expenses at the domestic securities brokerage operations increased $108 million, or 12%, primarily as a result of higher operations and administrative support costs, higher equity research costs, and increased investment in our branch office technology platform. 94 Retail Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retail Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)............... $1,458 $1,631 $1,551 Benefits and expenses(2).. 1,277 1,392 1,377 Adjusted operating income. $ 181 $ 239 $ 174 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude the impact of net realized investment gains on deferred acquisition cost amortization and reserves. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $58 million, or 24%, from 2000 to 2001. Adjusted operating income for 2000 benefited $21 million from refinements in our calculations of deferred policy acquisition costs. Excluding this change, adjusted operating income decreased $37 million, or 17%. Approximately $23 million of the $37 million decrease came from our mutual funds and wrap fee products business, primarily due to lower asset based distribution revenues as well as a lower level of fee producing redemptions. The remainder of the decrease came from our annuity business, primarily due to lower fee revenues. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased by $65 million, or 37%, from 1999 to 2000. Adjusted operating income for 2000 benefited $21 million from refinements in our calculations of deferred policy acquisition costs. Excluding this change, adjusted operating income increased $44 million, or 25%. Approximately $26 million of the $44 million increase came from our annuity business. This increase was primarily due to greater fee revenues from variable annuities, and resulted from an increase in average account values. A decrease in administrative expenses, primarily the result of expense management efforts, also contributed to the increase in adjusted operating income. The remainder of the increase in adjusted operating income came from our mutual funds and wrap fee products business. Asset based and transaction based fees increased as a result of continued growth in our proprietary mutual fund assets under management and expansion of our wrap fee products. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $173 million, or 11%, from 2000 to 2001. Fee based revenue decreased $112 million, from $1.081 million in 2000 to $969 million in 2001. The decrease came primarily from our mutual funds and wrap fee products, reflecting lower asset based distribution revenues as well as a lower level of fee producing redemptions, and from our variable annuity products, reflecting a decline in the average market value of customer accounts on which our fees are based. The remainder of the decrease came primarily from lower investment income in 2001 and a reduction in premiums we recognized on conversion of deferred annuities by customers to income paying status. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $80 million, or 5%, from 1999 to 2000. Fee based revenues increased $74 million, from $1.007 billion in 1999 to $1.081 billion in 2000. The increase came primarily from our mutual funds and wrap fee products, as well as our variable annuity products, reflecting growth in our average assets under management for these products. In addition, premiums increased by $19 million as a result of increased conversions of deferred annuities by our customers to income paying status. Net investment income declined $13 million, from $491 million in 1999 to $478 million in 2000, as a result of reductions in our base of fixed annuity business due to withdrawals and scheduled benefit payments. 95 Benefits and Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $115 million, or 8%, from 2000 to 2001. Benefits and expenses for 2000 includes a $21 million reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs from the refinements noted above. Excluding the impact of this change, benefits and expenses decreased $136 million, or 10%. Commissions and other general expenses decreased $71 million, or 9%, from $762 million in 2000 to $691 million 2001, primarily due to a decrease in general and administrative expenses reflecting our expense management efforts and lower sales based and asset based commission expense on our mutual fund products. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves decreased $43 million, from $152 million in 2000 to $109 million in 2001, primarily as a result of the reduction in premiums noted above and a $12 million charge we recorded in 2000 to increase annuity reserves due to investment portfolio restructuring to reduce the emphasis on equity investments. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, excluding the refinements noted above, decreased $23 million, from $233 million in 2000 to $210 million in 2001, primarily as a result of decreased amortization associated with lower fee income. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs included $17 million in 2001 and $20 million in 2000 to reflect decreases in expected future gross profits on our annuity products primarily due to declines in market values of the underlying assets on which our fees are based. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses remained relatively unchanged from 1999 to 2000. Benefits and expenses for 2000 includes a $21 million reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs from the refinements noted above. Excluding the impact of this change, benefits and expenses increased $36 million, or 3%. Changes in reserves, net of benefit payments, increased $34 million, from $118 million in 1999 to $152 million in 2000, as a result of customers converting deferred annuities to income paying status and a $12 million charge to increase annuity reserves due to investment portfolio restructuring as noted above. During 2000, we recorded $20 million of additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, to reflect a decrease in expected future gross profits on our annuity products primarily due to declines in market values of the underlying assets on which our fees are based. However, this increased charge was essentially offset by reduced amortization resulting from our termination, in the second quarter of 2000, of the annuity exchange program we commenced in 1997. Other general expenses were flat in 2000 from 1999, as a decrease in administrative expenses reflecting our expense management efforts was largely offset by a $30 million increase in sub advisory expense resulting from growth in assets under management of our mutual funds and wrap fee products and our variable annuity products. 96 Sales Results and Assets Under Management The following table sets forth the changes in the total mutual fund assets, excluding wrap fee products, and the balance of wrap fee product assets and annuities, at fair market value for mutual funds and account value for annuities, and net sales of our Retail Investments mutual fund and annuity products for the periods indicated. Net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Neither sales nor net sales are revenues under GAAP; they are, however, relevant measures of sales and business activity. Revenues are derived from fees and spread income as discussed above. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Mutual Funds(1) and Wrap fee Products(2): Mutual fund assets, excluding wrap fee products: Beginning total mutual fund assets.................................. $57,764 $55,245 $53,412 Sales (other than money market)..................................... 5,273 5,378 3,773 Redemptions (other than money market)............................... (4,697) (5,561) (4,872) Reinvestment of distributions and change in market value............ (1,894) 726 3,744 Net money market sales.............................................. 1,363 1,976 (812) Ending total mutual fund assets................................... 57,809 57,764 55,245 Wrap fee product assets at end of period............................... 17,955 19,621 16,723 Total mutual fund and wrap fee product assets at end of period......... $75,764 $77,385 $71,968 Net mutual fund sales (redemptions) other than money market(3)......... $ 576 $ (183) $(1,099) Variable Annuities(1): Beginning total account value....................................... $21,059 $22,614 $19,919 Sales, excluding exchanges.......................................... 1,271 1,809 2,025 Exchanges sales..................................................... 481 1,402 Surrenders, withdrawals and exchange redemptions.................... (2,356) (2,989) (3,432) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(4)(5).. (1,285) (856) 2,700 Ending total account value........................................ $18,689 $21,059 $22,614 Net sales (redemptions)................................................ $(1,085) $ (699) $ (5) Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value....................................... $ 2,926 $ 3,020 $ 3,249 Sales............................................................... 120 221 160 Surrenders, withdrawals and exchange redemptions.................... (216) (361) (425) Interest credited and other activity(4)(5).......................... 145 46 36 Ending total account value........................................ $ 2,975 $ 2,926 $ 3,020 Net sales (redemptions)................................................ $ (96) $ (140) $ (265) (1) Mutual funds and variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments through defined contribution plan products are included with such products. (2) Wrap fee product assets include proprietary assets of $3.1 billion at December 31, 2001, $3.4 billion at December 31, 2000, and $3.5 billion at December 31, 1999. (3) Excludes wrap fee products. (4) Includes maintenance and insurance charges assessed, net bonus payments credited to contract holder accounts, annuity benefits and other adjustments. (5) Includes increases to policyholder account values as a result of policyholder credits issued in 2001 in connection with Prudentials demutalization, amounting to $429 million for variable annuities and $157 million for fixed annuities. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Mutual fund and wrap fee product assets under management amounted to $75.8 billion at December 31, 2001, a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2000. Mutual fund assets under management at December 31, 2001 amounted to $57.8 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2000. Wrap fee assets declined $1.7 billion, to $18.0 billion at December 31, 2001. Mutual fund assets under management were essentially unchanged at December 31, 2001 from a year earlier, as declines in market values of existing customer accounts were essentially offset by our $1.4 billion net money market sales and net mutual fund sales, other than money market funds, of $576 million. We believe our 97 net money market sales, both in 2001 and 2000, reflect customer response to the unfavorable performance of the equity securities markets subsequent to the early part of 2000. The $759 million increase in net mutual fund sales other than money market funds reflected increased gross sales that came primarily from third party distribution of our mutual funds resulting from our participation in competitors products and distribution and a lower level of redemptions than that of 2000. Net sales of mutual funds from sub advised relationships, which commenced in 2000, amounted to $1.2 billion in 2001 and $472 million in 2000. The decrease in wrap fee assets during 2001 came primarily from declines in the market values of customers accounts. Net sales of wrap fee products, which are distributed primarily by our Financial Advisors, decreased to $1.4 billion in 2001 from $4.8 billion in 2000 as a result of lower gross sales and increased redemptions. We believe that this experience reflects customer response to recent securities market conditions, as well as the continued attrition of Financial Advisors. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $21.7 billion as of December 31, 2001, a decrease of $2.3 billion from December 31, 2000. This decrease resulted primarily from declines in the market value of customers variable annuities as well as net redemptions, which increased from $839 million in 2000 to $1.2 billion in 2001. The increase in net redemptions in 2001 came primarily from lower sales, which we believe reflects customer response to recent securities market conditions as well as the decreased number of Prudential Agents. Furthermore, fixed annuity sales in 2000 benefited from a promotional campaign we offered. The net redemptions of fixed and variable annuities in 2001 were partially offset by policy credits we issued in connection with our demutualization, which increased policyholders account values by $586 million. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Mutual funds and wrap fee product assets under management amounted to $77.4 billion at December 31, 2000, an increase of $5.4 billion, or 8%, from December 31, 1999. Mutual fund assets under management at December 31, 2000 amounted to $57.8 billion, an increase of $2.5 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 1999. Excluding money market funds, net mutual fund redemptions for 2000 were $183 million, which included $359 million of gross sales from our purchases of stock index shares for a long term deferred compensation program for our own Financial Advisors. Gross sales increased $1.2 billion, or 33%, from 1999 to 2000 excluding the latter purchases of stock index shares, which was partially offset by an increase of $689 million, or 14%, in redemptions. Redemptions, other than money market funds, increased $689 million, from $4.9 billion in 1999 to $5.6 billion in 2000. The increase in gross sales was a result of strong sales of growth oriented mutual funds, primarily products managed by our Jennison unit. Net money market sales increased by $2.8 billion for 2000 compared to 1999, reflecting customer response to volatile securities market conditions during 2000. Wrap fee assets increased $2.9 billion, or 17%, from $16.7 billion at December 31, 1999 to $19.6 billion at December 31, 2000. The increase came from net sales during 2000 of $4.8 billion of wrap fee products, in which we offer customers a choice of proprietary and non proprietary mutual funds as well as managed accounts, which was partially offset by declines in market values. We believe these net sales reflect increased marketplace emphasis on products that provide customers with a broader choice of investment options. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $24.0 billion at December 31, 2000, a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 1999. The decrease resulted from market value declines and greater net redemptions. Net redemptions of variable annuities were $699 million for 2000, an increase of $694 million compared to 1999. This increase resulted from an increase in surrenders, other than those related to exchange activity, consistent with maturation of the business, as a larger percentage of the business is no longer subject to surrender charges. Our withdrawals of variable and fixed annuities include exchanges of $481 million in 2000 and $1.4 billion in 1999. The discontinuance, during the second quarter of 2000, of the annuity exchange program referred to below did not appear to have a material impact on net variable annuity redemptions during that period or thereafter. Fixed annuity net redemptions of $140 million in 2000 were $125 million, or 47%, lower than the comparable net outflows for 1999. The decrease in net redemptions was attributable to an increase in new sales of our Discovery Classic annuity product. 98 Property and Casualty Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Property and Casualty Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)................. $2,051 $1,800 $1,747 Benefits and expenses....... 1,956 1,650 1,595 Adjusted operating income... $ 95 $ 150 $ 152 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $55 million, or 37%, from 2000 to 2001. Results for 2001 reflected a $59 million lower benefit from prior accident year development. Adjusted operating income in 2000 reflected the negative impact of $40 million that we provided for premium refunds or credits to certain New Jersey automobile policyholders under that states excess profits regulations. Partially offsetting this was a $35 million decrease in net investment income in 2001 from 2000. We released reserves of $106 million in 2001 and $165 million in 2000 because our automobile casualty claims experience for prior years was more favorable than we previously estimated in establishing reserves for these accident years. Additionally, we benefited $80 million in each of the years 2001 and 2000 under stop loss reinsurance contracts, which are based on current accident year results. However, we do not expect our 2002 adjusted operating income to include a comparable benefit from prior accident year development, and any stop loss recoveries for that year are contractually limited to less than half of the benefit we realized in 2001. Consequently, if the accident year experience of 2001 continues, we would anticipate a continuing decline in results in 2002. As discussed under " Benefits and Expenses," we have commenced re underwriting and non renewal of business that has produced adverse loss experience. While there can be no assurance, we believe that these actions, together with our cost reduction measures, will contribute to improvement of accident year experience. In May 2000, we completed the acquisition of the specialty automobile business of the St. Paul Companies, which writes in the non standard automobile insurance business. While, as discussed under " Revenues" below, this acquisition had an effect on the comparison of revenues for 2001 to 2000, it did not have a material impact on adjusted operating income. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income was essentially unchanged from 1999 to 2000. Results in 2000 reflect an $80 million recovery from a stop loss reinsurance contract based on current accident year results during that year and a $15 million greater benefit from prior accident year development. We released reserves of $165 million in 2000 and $150 million in 1999 because our automobile casualty claims experience for prior accident years was more favorable than we previously estimated in establishing reserves for these accident years. However, these favorable developments were largely offset by a $53 million increase in operating expenses, other than expenses of the specialty automobile business we acquired in 2000 as discussed below. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to increases in expenses to expand our distribution capabilities in direct, affinity group, property and casualty agent and independent agent channels, and a provision for refunds or credits to certain New Jersey automobile policyholders under insurance regulations based on profits generated from that business, as noted above. While, as discussed under " Revenues" below, our acquisition in May 2000 of a business which writes non standard automobile insurance had an effect on the comparison of revenues for 2000 to 1999, it did not have a material impact on adjusted operating income. 99 Revenues The following table sets forth the Property and Casualty Insurance segments earned premiums, which are net of reinsurance ceded, for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Automobile................. $1,403 $1,153 $1,069 Homeowners................. 448 413 447 Other...................... 33 33 32 Total earned premiums... $1,884 $1,599 $1,548 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased $251 million, or 14%, from 2000 to 2001. The $251 million increase included an increase of $96 million in revenues from the subsidiary we acquired in May 2000 that specializes in non standard automobile business, which is included in 2000 results only from the date of acquisition. The remaining revenue increase of $155 million, from our existing business, came primarily from a $196 million increase in earned premiums from automobile and homeowners insurance, partially offset by a $41 million decline in investment income. Total earned premiums, as shown in the immediately preceding table, increased by $285 million, or 18%, from 2000 to 2001. Excluding the impact of the acquisition mentioned above, earned premiums increased by $196 million, including the effect of a $40 million reduction in 2000 premiums from the provision for premium refunds or credits to certain New Jersey automobile policyholders, as noted above. Automobile earned premiums increased by $250 million, or 22%, from 2000 to 2001, including $89 million from the non standard automobile business and the effect of the $40 million reduction in 2000 premiums mentioned above. The remaining $121 million increase came primarily from new distribution channels we implemented during 1999 and 2000, including career agents focused on selling property and casualty insurance, workplace and affinity marketing, direct distribution, and independent agents, many of whom were producers for the acquired subsidiary. As discussed below under " Benefits and Expenses," commencing in the second half of 2001 we have suspended our mailing solicitations for the direct distribution channel and limited the growth of new business from some of these other distribution channels, based on our evaluation of the quality of the business. In October 2001, we announced that we would no longer write business through our property and casualty insurance career agency channel except in a few selected markets. We have also commenced re underwriting and non renewal of business that has produced adverse loss experience, to the extent permitted contractually and by state insurance regulations. Improved persistency in 2001 also contributed to the growth in earned premiums. Homeowners earned premiums increased $35 million, or 8%, from 2000 to 2001 due to lower reinsurance premiums ceded, as the number of policies in force was relatively unchanged. This stabilization of our policies in force represents an improvement compared with declines in prior years, which reflects intense rate competition that attracted customers to other companies. Net investment income decreased by $35 million, or 18%, from $193 million in 2000 to $158 million in 2001, and decreased by $41 million excluding the impact of the acquisition mentioned above. This decrease was primarily a result of a lower average base of invested assets, reflecting lower attributed capital, and a decline in investment yield. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $53 million, or 3%, from 1999 to 2000. Total revenues of $1.800 billion for 2000 include revenues of $178 million from the subsidiary we acquired in May 2000 that specializes in the non standard automobile business. Excluding the impact on revenues from this newly acquired subsidiary, revenues declined by $125 million, or 7%, from $1.747 billion in 1999 to $1.622 billion in 2000, due principally to a $117 million decrease in earned premiums on our existing automobile and homeowners business. The $117 million decline in earned premiums resulted in part from the $40 million reduction in 2000 premiums mentioned above, and a $30 million increase in reinsurance premiums ceded due to our purchase of additional reinsurance coverage in 2000. 100 Automobile earned premiums increased $84 million, or 8%, from 1999 to 2000. Excluding the impact of the acquisition and provision for premium refunds or credits mentioned above, automobile earned premiums declined by $44 million, or 4%, from $1.069 billion in 1999 to $1.025 billion in 2000 primarily as a result of a decline in average premium, due in part to the continued phase in of a 15% rate reduction for New Jersey policyholders mandated by New Jersey law that came into effect in March 1999. As of December 31, 2000, this premium reduction was entirely reflected in our earned premiums. Our policies in force from our existing automobile business, excluding the newly acquired subsidiary, increased 2% at December 31, 2000 from a year earlier. The increase reflected improved persistency in 2000 as compared to 1999 as well as an increase in new policies sold, representing an improvement from prior year declines. Homeowners earned premiums decreased $34 million, or 8%, from 1999 to 2000. Excluding the impact of reinsurance premiums ceded, which increased in 2000 from 1999, homeowners earned premiums were flat as the number of policies in force was relatively unchanged. Net investment income was $193 million for 2000, relatively unchanged from $197 million in 1999. Benefits and Expenses The following table shows our calendar year loss, expense and combined ratios, the impact on these calendar year ratios of catastrophic losses and our accident year combined ratios based on loss experience for the periods indicated (all based on statutory accounting principles). Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Loss ratio(1): Automobile............................................... 70.6% 64.0% 71.1% Homeowners............................................... 76.5 72.4 70.7 Overall................................................ 70.8 65.8 71.1 Expense ratio(2): Automobile............................................... 30.8 35.3 30.5 Homeowners............................................... 36.6 45.3 39.1 Overall................................................ 32.1 37.8 33.1 Combined ratio(3): Automobile............................................... 101.4 99.3 101.6 Homeowners............................................... 113.1 117.7 109.8 Overall................................................ 102.9 103.6 104.2 Effect of catastrophic losses included in combined ratio(4): 2.2 2.7 3.3 Accident year combined ratio(5):............................ 107.0 114.6 107.5 (1)Represents ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to earned premium. Ratios reflect the favorable development in the calendar period from prior accident year reserves of $106 million in the year ended December 31, 2001, $165 million in 2000, and $150 million in 1999. Ratios also reflect recoveries from current accident year stop loss reinsurance contracts of $80 million in each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. (2)Represents ratio of operating expenses to net written premium. (3)Represents the sum of (1) and (2). (4)Represents losses and loss adjustment expenses attributable to catastrophes that are included in the combined ratio. Our calendar year catastrophe losses include both current and prior accident year losses. We classify as catastrophes those events that are declared catastrophes by Property Claims Services, which is an industry organization that declares and tracks all property related catastrophes causing insured property damage in the United States. Property Claims Services declares an event a catastrophe if it causes in excess of a specified dollar amount of insured property damage, which was $25 million throughout the periods presented, and affects a significant number of policyholders and insurance companies. (5)Accident year combined ratios for annual periods reflect the combined ratios for accidents that occur in the indicated calendar year, restated to reflect subsequent changes in loss estimates for those claims based on cumulative loss data through December 31, 2001. These ratios reflect the recoveries from stop loss reinsurance contracts as noted above. We analyze accident year combined ratios because they reflect the actual loss experience of accidents that occur in a given period excluding the effect of accidents that occur in other periods. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Our automobile loss ratio, as shown in the table immediately above, increased from 2000 to 2001 primarily due to the lower net benefit from prior accident year reserve development in 2001. The impact of experience on new automobile business also contributed to the increase in this ratio, since the experience on our seasoned automobile business was relatively consistent. We added significant new 101 automobile business during 2001, primarily in the first half of the year, which we expected would produce less favorable experience in its initial year than similarly priced seasoned business. However, based on our evaluation of the quality of the new business produced, particularly the major portion of the business which was sold through the new distribution channels we implemented in 1999 and 2000 as noted above, we have suspended our mailing solicitations for the direct distribution channel and limited the growth of business from some of our distribution channels, other than Prudential Agents, commencing in the third quarter of 2001. In October 2001, we announced that we would no longer write business through our property and casualty insurance career agency channel except in a few selected markets. We have also commenced re underwriting and non renewal of business that has produced adverse loss experience, to the extent permitted contractually and by state insurance regulations. The increase in the homeowners loss ratio came from a 16% increase in claim severity and a 3% increase in claim frequency. Our stop loss reinsurance recoveries resulted in decreases in the homeowners combined ratio of 5.4 percentage points in 2001 and had no impact in 2000. Our calendar year catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, amounted to $42 million for 2001 compared to $45 million for 2000. Losses that we ceded through reinsurance, including stop loss reinsurance, resulted in decreases in the total combined ratio of 7.3 percentage points for 2001 and 8.3 percentage points for 2000. Our overall expense ratio for 2001 decreased from 2000, as we incurred costs in 2000 to develop our distribution channels and benefited in 2001 from staff reductions and the favorable impact of the increased premium base. The decrease in the accident year combined ratio resulted from the decline in the expense ratio. Recoveries from stop loss reinsurance resulted in decreases in the accident year combined ratio of 4.3 percentage points in 2001 and 4.8 percentage points in 2000. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Our automobile and total combined ratios, as shown in the table immediately above, improved in 2000 from 1999 primarily as a result of the $80 million recovery from a stop loss reinsurance contract during 2000 and the $15 million greater benefit from prior accident year reserve development. The decrease in the automobile loss ratio came primarily from our recovery from a stop loss reinsurance contract as noted above, and the greater benefit from release of prior accident year reserves in 2000 as well as our efforts to limit loss severity, partially offset by a slight increase in claim frequency. The increase in the homeowners loss ratio primarily came from a 13% increase in claim severity, partially offset by a 9% decrease in claim frequency. Our catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, amounted to $45 million for 2000 compared to $51 million for 1999. Losses that we ceded through reinsurance resulted in a decrease in the total combined ratio of 8.3 percentage points for 2000 and, as a result of changes in recoverable amounts previously recorded, an increase of 2.6 percentage points for 1999. Our overall expense ratio for 2000 increased in comparison to 1999 mainly because of the impact of increased operating expenses as discussed above. Employee Benefits Division The Employee Benefits division generates income from premiums, as well as fee based revenues and spread income, through the Group Insurance and Other Employee Benefits segments. Premiums and investment income from group life and disability insurance, as well as fee based revenues from products like group variable universal life insurance, are the primary sources of revenues for the Group Insurance segment. The Other Employee Benefits segment also receives premiums and investment income, as well as fee based revenues. Products and services for defined contribution and defined benefit retirement plans, as well as real estate and relocation services, generate the major portion of the Other Employee Benefits segments fee based revenues. We include these fee based revenues in the line captioned "Commissions and other income" or "Policy charges and fee income" in our consolidated statements of operations. 102 We seek to earn spread income in our general account on various products, which is the difference between our return on the investments supporting the products net of expenses and the amounts we credit to our contractholders. These products primarily include the general account insurance group life and disability products of the Group Insurance segment as well as guaranteed investment contracts and certain group annuity products of the Other Employee Benefits segment. We include revenues from these products, other than premiums received from policyholders, primarily in the line captioned "Net investment income" in our consolidated statements of operations. The Group Insurance and Other Employee Benefits segments pay the expenses of their own proprietary sales forces for distribution of products, and pay the Individual Life Insurance and Private Client Group segments within the U.S. Consumer division for distribution of their products through Prudential Agents and Financial Advisors. These segments also pay our Investment Management and Advisory Services segment for management of proprietary assets. These fees result in expenses to the segments of the Employee Benefits division and revenues to the Asset Management division. We reflect all of the intra company services at rates that we determined with reference to market rates. The Other Employee Benefits segment also pays third party managers for management of non proprietary assets that support some of its defined contribution retirement products. Division Results The following table and discussion present the Employee Benefits divisions results based on our definition of adjusted operating income, which is a non GAAP measure, as well as income from continuing operations before income taxes, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. As shown below, adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. You should not view adjusted operating income as a substitute for income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP, and you should note that our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. We exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, from adjusted operating income because the timing of transactions resulting in recognition of gains or losses is largely at our discretion and the amount of these gains or losses is heavily influenced by and fluctuates in part according to the availability of market opportunities. Including the fluctuating effects of these transactions could distort trends in the underlying profitability of our business. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Division operating results: Revenues(1).............................................................. $5,912 $5,686 $5,442 Benefits and expenses(2)................................................. 5,729 5,299 5,042 Adjusted operating income................................................ $ 183 $ 387 $ 400 Adjusted operating income by segment: Group Insurance.......................................................... $ 70 $ 158 $ 128 Other Employee Benefits.................................................. 113 229 272 Total.................................................................. 183 387 400 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges: Realized investment gains (losses), net................................ (172) (87) 228 Related charges(3)..................................................... 14 (31) (143) Total realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges..... (158) (118) 85 Income from continuing operations before income taxes....................... $ 25 $ 269 $ 485 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. (2)Benefits and expenses exclude the impact of net realized investment gains on reserves and deferred acquisition cost amortization. (3)Related charges consist of the following: 103 Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Reserves for future policy benefits................. $ 7 $(32) $(147) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs... 7 1 4 Total............................................. $14 $(31) $(143) 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our Employee Benefits division decreased $204 million, or 53%, from 2000 to 2001 as a result of a $116 million decrease in adjusted operating income from our Other Employee Benefits segment and an $88 million decrease from our Group Insurance segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $244 million, or 91%, from 2000 to 2001, reflecting the decrease in adjusted operating income as well as a $40 million increase in realized investment losses, net of related charges. For a discussion of realized investment gains and losses and charges related to realized investment gains and losses, see " Consolidated Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains." 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our Employee Benefits division decreased $13 million, or 3%, from 1999 to 2000 as a result of a $43 million decrease in adjusted operating income from our Other Employee Benefits segment which was partially offset by a $30 million increase from our Group Insurance segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $216 million, from $485 million in 1999 to $269 million in 2000. This decline resulted primarily from realized investment losses, net of related charges, of $118 million in 2000 compared to realized investment gains, net of related charges, of $85 million in 1999. Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)............... $3,248 $2,801 $2,428 Benefits and expenses..... 3,178 2,643 2,300 Adjusted operating income. $ 70 $ 158 $ 128 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $88 million, or 56%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came primarily from less favorable mortality experience on group life insurance in 2001, which included an increase in our estimate of incurred but not reported claims. This increase in estimate had a negative impact of approximately $36 million on our adjusted operating income for 2001. The mortality experience on group life insurance was partially offset by earned premium growth and improved morbidity on group disability products. In addition, adjusted operating income benefited $32 million in 2000 from refinements in our calculations of reserves and return premiums for waiver of premium features. However, about half of this benefit was offset during 2000, primarily by a charge to increase the allowance for receivables. An increase in operating expenses, including $12 million of consulting costs in 2001, also contributed to the decrease in adjusted operating income. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $30 million, or 23%, from 1999 to 2000. Approximately half of the increase came from growth in earned premiums on both group life and disability products, reflecting increased sales and strong persistency, as well as improved mortality and morbidity on group life and disability products in 2000. Adjusted operating income benefited $32 million in 2000 from refinements in our calculations of reserves and return premiums for waiver of premium features. However, about half of this benefit was offset during 2000, primarily by a charge to increase the allowance for receivables. 104 Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased by $447 million, or 16%, from 2000 to 2001. Group life insurance premiums increased by $350 million, or 21%, to $2.005 billion primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales, as described below, and continued strong persistency, which increased from 95% in 2000 to 97% in 2001. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $43 million, also reflecting the growth in business in force. Persistency decreased from 91% in 2000 to 89% in 2001, primarily due to the cancellation of a large case. Net investment income increased $62 million, or 13%, primarily due to a larger base of invested assets. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $373 million, or 15%, from 1999 to 2000. Group life insurance premiums increased by $189 million, or 13%, to $1.655 billion primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales, which increased in 2000. Persistency increased from 94% in 1999 to 95% in 2000. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $71 million, or 18%, also reflecting the growth in business in force resulting from new sales, which increased in 2000. Persistency increased from 88% in 1999 to 91% in 2000. The remainder of the increase in revenues came primarily from higher fees on products sold to employers for funding of employee benefit programs and retirement arrangements, reflecting growth of this business in 2000. Net investment income was $485 million in 2000, relatively unchanged from $470 million in 1999. Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Benefits ratio(1): Group life............................. 92.6% 85.8% 88.3% Group disability....................... 95.2 101.9 102.7 Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life............................. 10.0 11.6 11.4 Group disability....................... 23.6 21.0 23.5 (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased by $535 million, or 20%, from 2000 to 2001. The increase resulted in large part from an increase of $448 million, or 22%, in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves. This increase reflected less favorable group life insurance claims experience in 2001, which included an increase in our estimate of incurred but not reported claims, as well as the growth of business in force. Based on our evaluation of mortality experience during 2001, we have reviewed our pricing policies to determine whether our pricing structure provides for adequate margins and returns on all of our group insurance products. As a result of this review, we have commenced pricing adjustments, when contractually permitted, which consider the recent deterioration of the benefits ratio on our group life insurance products. During 2002, we expect to implement pricing adjustments on group life insurance business representing about half of our 2001 premiums in force, including business representing approximately 26% of our 2001 premium in force for which pricing adjustments were implemented upon renewal in January 2002. While there can be no assurance, we expect these actions to result, over time, in a return to benefits ratios consistent with those experienced on this business prior to 2001. However, we expect that the implementation of these actions, given the competitive marketplace for our products, may result in a decline in persistency on our group life insurance business in force and some slowing of our sales. As a result of our reinsurance coverages, insurance losses resulting from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States did not have a material impact on our results. An increase of $64 million, or 16%, in operating expenses also contributed to the increase in benefits and expenses. The increase in operating 105 expenses, from $402 million in 2000 to $466 million in 2001, resulted primarily from sales based compensation costs driven by the increase in group life insurance sales. Additionally, expenses in 2001 included $12 million of consulting costs to enhance our underwriting and other business processes. The group life benefits ratio for 2001 increased 6.8 percentage points from 2000 primarily as a result of the less favorable claims experience on our group life insurance business in 2001. About 4 percentage points of the increase in the group life benefits ratio came from the increase in estimate of incurred but not reported claims and the net impact of the refinements in reserve calculations and charge to increase the allowance for receivables in 2000. The group disability benefits ratio improved by 6.7 percentage points from 2000 to 2001 reflecting better morbidity experience, which we attribute to accelerated case resolution and our ongoing efforts to improve the quality of our underwriting and claims management processes as well as the impact of our increase in the allowance for receivables, which contributed about 2 percentage points to the 2000 ratio. The group life administrative operating expense ratio improved 1.6 percentage points, reflecting the impact of our efforts to improve operational efficiencies. The group disability insurance administrative operating expense ratio increased 2.6 percentage points, reflecting the favorable impact, in 2000, of changes in our estimate of the administrative costs associated with settlement of pending claims. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $343 million, or 15%, from 1999 to 2000. This increase includes the changes in reserves from the refinements in reserve calculations noted above, which reduced our expenses by $54 million in 2000. Excluding this change, total benefits and expenses increased $397 million, or 17%. The increase resulted in large part from an increase of $337 million, or 19%, in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves. This increase reflected the growth in business in force, partially offset by the impact of improved mortality and morbidity experience on group life and disability products in 2000. An increase of $47 million, or 13%, in operating expenses also contributed to the increase in benefits and expenses. The increase in operating expenses, from $354 million in 1999 to $401 million in 2000, resulted primarily from the sales based compensation costs related to the increase in sales of our group life and group disability products, and volume related costs to administer the increased business in force. The group life benefits ratio for 2000 improved by 2.5 percentage points from 1999 primarily as a result of improved mortality experience. The group disability benefits ratio improved by 0.8 percentage points from 1999 to 2000 reflecting better morbidity experience, which we attribute to our ongoing efforts to improve the quality of our underwriting and claims management processes. The group life administrative operating expense ratio was relatively unchanged, while the group disability insurance administrative operating expense ratio improved 2.5 percentage points, reflecting the impact of our efforts to improve operational efficiencies, including a reduction in our estimate of the administrative costs associated with settlement of pending claims. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments new annualized premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, as well as revenues, because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income in addition to current sales. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) New annualized premiums: Group life(1)......... $483 $321 $262 Group disability(2)... 147 162 105 Total............... $630 $483 $367 (1) Amounts do not include excess premiums, which are premiums that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts of group universal life insurance. (2) Includes long term care products. 106 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums increased $147 million, or 30%, from 2000 to 2001, with an increase of $162 million in group life sales partially offset by a $15 million decline in group disability sales. The group life sales increase included $46 million in premiums in 2001 from additional coverage under an insurance program for the United States armed forces under which our retained risk, and consequently the risk charge we include in the premiums charged, are limited. The remainder of the group life sales increase came from a small number of large sales to new and existing customers, including annualized premiums of $99 million from one sale. The group disability sales decrease reflected the benefit to 2000 results from sales opportunities resulting from the well publicized financial difficulties of a competitor. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums increased $116 million, or 32%, from 1999 to 2000, with increases of $59 million in group life sales and $57 million in group disability sales. Sales for 1999 benefited from annualized premiums of $40 million from one sale. We believe the sales increase reflected improved competitiveness of our products as well as sales opportunities resulting from the well publicized financial difficulties of a competitor. Other Employee Benefits Operating Results The following table sets forth the Other Employee Benefits segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)................. $2,664 $2,885 $3,014 Benefits and expenses(2).... 2,551 2,656 2,742 Adjusted operating income... $ 113 $ 229 $ 272 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude the impact of net realized investment gains on reserves and deferred acquisition cost amortization. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $116 million, or 51%, in 2001 from 2000. Adjusted operating income benefited $64 million in 2000 primarily from refinements in our annuity reserves. Excluding this change, adjusted operating income decreased $52 million, or 32%. The $52 million decrease came from decreases in adjusted operating income of $42 million from our real estate and relocation business and $23 million from our guaranteed products business, partially offset by a $13 million reduction in losses from our full service defined contribution business. Our real estate and relocation business reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $11 million in 2001 versus adjusted operating income of $31 million in 2000. The loss in 2001 resulted from expenses of $35 million from consolidation of operating facilities as well as a decline in corporate relocation volume. Our guaranteed products business reported adjusted operating income of $153 million in 2001, a decrease of $23 million from 2000 adjusted operating income, excluding the impact of the annuity reserve refinement noted above. Results from this business in 2000 were negatively affected by a $56 million charge we recorded to increase reserves for our structured settlement products as a result of our restructuring of the investment portfolio supporting these products to reduce the emphasis on equity investments, and we also recorded charges amounting to $26 million during that year to establish reserves for guaranteed benefits on several separate account contracts. However, the impact of the foregoing items was largely offset by less favorable mortality experience in 2001, and, during the first nine months of 2001, we recorded approximately $29 million of increased estimates of policy liabilities relating to prior periods. Additionally, this business continues to be adversely affected by the gradual runoff of our general account products, including general account guaranteed investment contract ("GIC"), business, that we have experienced over the past several years. We expect to continue to have low sales of general account GICs unless and until our ratings improve. 107 Our full service defined contribution business, which benefited from lower expense levels in 2001, reported a loss of $29 million on an adjusted operating income basis compared to a loss of $42 million in 2000. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $43 million, or 16%, in 2000 from 1999. Adjusted operating income benefited $64 million in 2000 and $54 million in 1999 primarily from refinements in our annuity reserves. Excluding these changes, adjusted operating income decreased $53 million, or 24%, from $218 million in 1999 to $165 million in 2000. The $53 million decrease came primarily from a $45 million decline in adjusted operating income from our guaranteed products business. Results from this business were negatively affected by a $56 million charge we recorded in 2000 to increase our reserves for structured settlement products as discussed above. We recorded charges of $26 million in 2000 and $37 million in 1999 to establish reserves for guaranteed benefits on several separate account contracts. Results from this business continue to be affected by the scheduled runoff of our general account GIC business that we have experienced over the past several years. Losses from our full service defined contribution business were $42 million in 2000, relatively unchanged from $39 million in 1999. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $221 million, or 8%, from 2000 to 2001. Net investment income decreased $151 million, or 6%, from $2.332 billion in 2000 to $2.181 billion in 2001 reflecting lower yields as well as the gradual runoff of our general account products, including general account GIC business. Premiums, policy charges and fees decreased $49 million, from $149 million in 2000 to $100 million in 2001, reflecting lower sales of general account group annuity products. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $129 million, or 4%, from 1999 to 2000. Net investment income decreased $128 million, or 5%, from $2.460 billion in 1999 to $2.332 billion in 2000. The majority of this decline relates to the continued runoff of our general account GIC business. Fee based revenue in 2000 was approximately equal to 1999, as the impact on 1999 revenues from $16 million in fees we earned in connection with our participation in the rehabilitation of another life insurance company was essentially offset by higher fee based revenues resulting from growth in our full service defined contribution and real estate and relocation businesses in 2000. Benefits and Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $105 million, or 4%, from 2000 to 2001. This decrease includes the effect of refinements in our annuity reserves in 2000 as noted above. Excluding this change, benefits and expenses decreased $169 million, or 6%. Policyholders benefits together with the change in policy reserves and interest credited to policyholders, decreased $128 million in 2001 from 2000, excluding the effect of the 2000 refinement in annuity reserves. The decrease reflected our maturing block of group annuity business and the decline in premiums mentioned above. In addition, interest expense decreased $31 million from 2000 to 2001 as a result of a lower level of investment related borrowing and lower borrowing rates. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $86 million, or 3%, from 1999 to 2000. Interest credited to policyholders declined from $1.086 billion in 1999 to $1.024 billion in 2000, primarily as a result of the runoff of our general account GIC business as noted above. This decrease was essentially offset by the $56 million charge we recorded in 2000 to increase our reserves for structured settlement products. The remainder of the decrease came primarily from a decrease in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, reflecting our maturing block of group annuity business. 108 Sales Results and Assets Under Management The following table shows the changes in the account values and net sales of Other Employee Benefits segment products for the periods indicated. Net sales are total sales minus withdrawals or withdrawals and benefits, as applicable. As noted above under " U.S. Consumer Division Retail Investments Sales Results and Assets Under Management," neither sales nor net sales are revenues under GAAP. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Defined Contribution: Beginning total account value................................... $26,046 $25,788 $21,527 Sales........................................................... 3,689 5,439 4,736 Withdrawals..................................................... (3,422) (3,937) (3,287) Change in market value, interest credited, and other activity(1) (1,673) (1,244) 2,812 Ending total account value................................... $24,640 $26,046 $25,788 Net sales....................................................... $ 267 $ 1,502 $ 1,449 Guaranteed Products(2): Beginning total account value................................... $41,577 $41,757 $45,560 Sales........................................................... 2,299 2,024 1,951 Withdrawals and benefits........................................ (4,372) (5,279) (7,244) Change in market value and interest income...................... 2,198 2,997 2,070 Other(3)........................................................ (1,877) 78 (580) Ending total account value................................... $39,825 $41,577 $41,757 Net sales....................................................... $(2,073) $(3,255) $(5,293) (1) Includes an increase to policyholder account values as a result of policyholder credits issued in 2001 in connection with Prudentials demutualization, amounting to $433 million. (2) Prudentials retirement plan accounted for 29% of sales in the year ended December 31, 2001, 27% of sales for 2000, and 28% for 1999. Ending total account value includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $9.1 billion at December 31, 2001, $8.2 billion at December 31, 2000, and $8.2 billion at December 31, 1999. (3) Represents changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. Additionally, in 2001, includes an increase to policyholder account values of $181 million representing cumulative conversions of client balances to products currently included in this business and a further increase of $2 million as a result of policyholder credits issued in connection with Prudentials demutualization. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Assets under management in our full service defined contribution business amounted to $24.6 billion at December 31, 2001, a decrease of $1.4 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 2000. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in market value of mutual funds reflecting the general downturn in the equity markets. In addition, net sales decreased $1.2 billion in 2001 from 2000, reflecting a decrease in new institutional clients. Assets under management for guaranteed products amounted to $39.8 billion at December 31, 2001, a decrease of $1.8 billion, or 4%, from December 31, 2000. The decrease from December 31, 2000 is primarily due to a decrease in separate account annuity assets that reflected approximately $1.4 billion of annuity benefits. As of December 31, 2001, our guaranteed products assets under management included $10.2 billion relating to non participating group annuities and structured settlements that were sold predominantly in a high interest rate environment. Historically, we have actively managed the investment portfolios underlying these long duration products to maximize economic value. This strategy has produced significant realized investment gains over the years; however, the reinvestment of sales proceeds in lower yielding assets has resulted in marginally profitable adjusted operating income on these products for the three years ended December 31, 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Assets under management in our full service defined contribution business were relatively unchanged at December 31, 2000 from a year earlier. Net sales benefited from increased participant contributions, reflecting an increased participant base. However, the $1.5 billion net sales in 2000 were largely offset by negative changes in market value of $1.2 billion resulting from poor performance in the equity markets. 109 Assets under management for guaranteed products at December 31, 2000 were also relatively unchanged from a year earlier. Although assets related to our general account GIC business continued to decline, reflecting the scheduled runoff of that business, this decrease was largely offset by an increase in our separate account annuity assets resulting primarily from market appreciation and interest income on fixed income investments. Withdrawals and benefits from guaranteed products for 2000 totaled $5.3 billion, $2.0 billion less than those of 1999, reflecting the declining volume of general account GIC contracts. Sales of guaranteed products increased $73 million over 1999, as an increase in separate account GICs and funding agreements more than offset a decline in traditional GICs. International Division The International division generates revenues from premiums and investment income through our International Insurance segment and from commissions, asset management fees and investment income from the international securities and futures brokerage and trading operations that comprise our International Securities and Investments segment. We include the asset management fees and commissions from these operations in the line captioned "Commissions and other income" in our consolidated statements of operations. The International Insurance and International Securities and Investments segments pay the expenses of their own proprietary sales forces, consisting of Life Planners, Life Advisors and Financial Advisors, for distribution of products. Our international operations conduct their business primarily in local currencies and, accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, net of the impact of our hedging strategies, affect the profitability of these operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of our currency hedging strategies, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Other Than Trading Activities Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates." In addition, we must manage our risk in connection with principal transactions associated with the international and futures operations of the International Securities and Investments segment. The liquidity of markets and transactional volume, the level and volatility of interest rates, security and currency valuations, competitive conditions and other factors also affect our revenues and profitability. See " Overview Profitability." Division Results The following table and discussion present the International divisions results based on our definition of adjusted operating income, which is a non GAAP measure, as well as income from continuing operations before income taxes, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. As shown below, adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. You should not view adjusted operating income as a substitute for income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP, and you should note that our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. We exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, from adjusted operating income because the timing of transactions resulting in recognition of gains or losses is largely at our discretion and the amount of these gains or losses is heavily influenced by and fluctuates in part according to the availability of market opportunities. Including the fluctuating effects of these transactions could distort trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses. 110 Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Division operating results: Revenues(1)....................................... $4,694 $2,624 $2,102 Benefits and expenses............................. 4,171 2,302 1,869 Adjusted operating income......................... $ 523 $ 322 $ 233 Adjusted operating income by segment: International Insurance........................... $ 611 $ 296 $ 218 International Securities and Investments.......... (88) 26 15 Total........................................... 523 322 233 Item excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains, net of losses.......... (57) (15) 9 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 466 $ 307 $ 242 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our International division increased $201 million, or 62%, in 2001 from 2000. The increase came from an increase of $315 million in adjusted operating income from our International Insurance segment, including $262 million from Gibraltar Life which we acquired in 2001, as discussed below. This increase was partially offset by a $114 million decline in adjusted operating income from our International Securities and Investments segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased by $159 million, or 52%, in 2001 from 2000 as a result of the increase in adjusted operating income, which was partially offset by a $42 million increase in realized investment losses. For a discussion of realized investment gains and losses, and charges related to realized investment gains and losses, see " Consolidated Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains." 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our International division increased $89 million, or 38%, in 2000 from 1999 due to increases in both segments in the division. Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased $65 million, or 27%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came from the $89 million increase in adjusted operating income, which was partially offset by a $24 million decrease in realized investment gains, net of losses. International Insurance Our international insurance operations are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially impact the U.S. dollar results of our international insurance operations from period to period even if results on a local currency basis are relatively constant. Exchange rates fluctuated significantly in the three years ended December 31, 2001. The financial results of our International Insurance segment reflect the impact of our currency hedging strategies including internal hedges, whereby some currency fluctuation exposure is assumed in our Corporate and Other operations. Unless otherwise stated, we have translated all information in this section on the basis of exchange rates in accordance with GAAP. To achieve a better understanding of local operating performance, where indicated below, we analyze results both on the basis of GAAP translated results and on the basis of local results translated at a constant exchange rate. When we discuss constant exchange rate information below, we translated on the basis of the average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2001. 111 Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1): International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life... $2,120 $1,920 $1,522 Gibraltar Life...................................... 2,026 4,146 1,920 1,522 Benefits and expenses: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life... 1,771 1,624 1,304 Gibraltar Life...................................... 1,764 3,535 1,624 1,304 Adjusted operating income.............................. $ 611 $ 296 $ 218 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $315 million from 2000 to 2001. Results of Gibraltar Life, which we include in our results from April 2, 2001, the date of the reorganization, through November 30, 2001, contributed $262 million to the increase in adjusted operating income. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $172 million for the fourth quarter of 2001, including $77 million from Gibraltar Life. The $262 million adjusted operating income reported by Gibraltar Life reflected revenues of $2.026 billion and benefits and expenses of $1.764 billion. Gibraltar Lifes revenues were comprised primarily of $1.710 billion of premiums, policy charges and fees, and $304 million net investment income, and its benefits and expenses were comprised primarily of $1.358 billion of policy benefits including changes in reserves and $406 million of operating expenses. As a result of Gibraltar Lifes recent emergence from reorganization proceedings and the reduction in benefits for in force policies, when we established Gibraltar Lifes initial liability for future policy benefits, we assumed a higher than normal level of policy surrenders for the near term. Our surrender rate assumptions for Gibraltar Lifes years of operations, commencing at the date of reorganization, are 6% in the first year and 4% thereafter for paid up policies and 2% to 38% in the first year, 3% to 14% in the second year, and 6% to 10% thereafter for premium paying policies, although the actual surrender rates we experience may differ materially from our assumptions. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income for the initial eight month period included in our results benefited from gains on policy surrenders of about $56 million, including about $6 million in the three months ended November 30, 2001. Substantially all of this contribution to adjusted operating income resulted from a high level of surrenders due to customer response to the initial impact of policy changes introduced as part of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization. These surrenders, which were significantly greater in the initial eight month period than the level we expect on an ongoing basis, are not anticipated to have a material adverse impact on future results from Gibraltar Life. Future surrender experience in the near term may be significantly different from the levels we assumed, and our future adjusted operating income will be sensitive to differences in actual surrender experience from our assumptions, particularly during an initial period of about two years from the date of reorganization. We estimate that every 1% of in force policies that surrender in excess of our assumed level would contribute $40 to $50 million to our adjusted operating income for the period of the surrenders, and conversely that for every 1% of in force policies that surrender below our assumed level, our reported adjusted operating income would be negatively affected by $40 to $50 million. Adjusted operating income, excluding the impact of the Gibraltar Life acquisition discussed above, increased $53 million, or 18%, from 2000 to 2001. Adjusted operating income for 2001 benefited $8 million from a refinement in the methodology used to calculate reserves in our Korean operations. Excluding this item, 112 adjusted operating income increased $45 million, or 15%. The increase came from improved results both from our operations in countries other than Japan and our Japanese insurance operations. Our operations in countries other than Japan contributed adjusted operating income of $6 million for 2001, excluding the reserve refinement, compared to an operating loss of $19 million for 2000, as increased profits from our operations in Korea and Taiwan more than offset continued costs associated with our expansion into additional countries. Our Japanese insurance operations reported continuing improved results, with adjusted operating income of $335 million in 2001 compared to $315 million in 2000, due to strong persistency and new sales, partially offset by a negative impact of about $24 million from currency fluctuations and less favorable mortality experience. The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the unfavorable effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis and excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income, including results of Gibraltar Life, increased $333 million. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $78 million, or 36%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase resulted from continuing improved results from our Japanese insurance operations, from $240 million in 1999 to $315 million in 2000, which experienced continued growth in insurance in force due to strong persistency and new sales. Our operations in countries other than Japan resulted in operating losses of $19 million in 2000 and $22 million in 1999, as improved operating income from our Korean insurance operations was partially offset by increased costs associated with our expansion into additional countries. The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the favorable effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis and excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income increased $37 million, or 18%. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased $2.226 billion from 2000 to 2001, including $2.026 billion from Gibraltar Life. Excluding the impact of the Gibraltar Life acquisition, revenues increased $200 million, or 10%, from 2000 to 2001. The $200 million increase in revenues came primarily from an increase in premium income of $152 million, or 9%, from $1.680 billion in 2000 to $1.832 billion in 2001. Premiums from our Korean operations increased $97 million, from $188 million in 2000 to $285 million in 2001, as a result of increased sales and strong persistency. Premiums in all other countries increased $55 million, from $1.492 billion in 2000 to $1.547 billion in 2001, primarily as a result of continued strong persistency and new sales in Japan and Taiwan. On a constant exchange rate basis and excluding the impact of currency hedging, total segment revenues increased $2.424 billion, from 2000 to 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $398 million, or 26%, from 1999 to 2000. The growth in revenues came primarily from an increase in premium income of $335 million, from $1.345 billion in 1999 to $1.680 billion in 2000. Premiums from our Japanese operations increased $227 million, from $1.167 billion in 1999 to $1.394 billion in 2000, as a result of continued strong persistency and new sales, as well as the favorable impact of currency exchange fluctuations. Premiums in all other countries increased $108 million, from $178 million in 1999 to $286 million in 2000, primarily as a result of increased sales and strong persistency in Korea and Taiwan. Net investment income increased $30 million, from $99 million in 1999 to $129 million in 2000, as a result of the growth in invested assets related to the increase in our business in force. On a constant exchange rate basis and excluding the impact of currency hedging, revenues increased $272 million, or 19%, from 1999 to 2000. Benefits and Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," increased $1.911 billion from 2000 to 2001, including $1.764 billion from Gibraltar Life. Excluding the impact of the Gibraltar Life acquisition, benefits and expenses increased $147 million, or 9%, from 2000 to 2001. The $147 million increase in benefits and expenses came primarily from an increase of $120 million in policyholders benefits, which includes the change in reserves for future policy benefits. Policyholders benefits 113 increased from $1.268 billion in 2000 to $1.388 billion in 2001, primarily as a result of the greater volume of business in force, which was driven by new sales, continued strong persistency and the aging of business in force in markets where our operations are more mature. On a constant exchange rate basis, total segment benefits and expenses increased $2.091 billion. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $320 million, or 25%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase in benefits and expenses came primarily from an increase of $234 million in policyholders benefits, which includes the change in reserves for future policy benefits. Policyholders benefits increased from $1.034 billion in 1999 to $1.268 billion in 2000, primarily as a result of the greater volume of business in force, which was driven by new sales and continued strong persistency, as well as the aging of business in force in markets where our operations are more seasoned. The remaining increase in benefits and expenses of $85 million reflected the increase in administrative expenses associated with the greater volume of business in force and increased expenses related to opening additional agencies in existing markets and expansion into new markets. On a constant exchange rate basis, benefits and expenses increased $235 million, or 19%. Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, as well as revenues, because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income in addition to current sales. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. New annualized premiums increased $183 million, or 36%, from $509 million in 2000 to $692 million in 2001, including $110 million from Gibraltar Life and reflecting the unfavorable impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $240 million, or 53%, from 2000 to 2001, including $110 million from Gibraltar Life. On that basis, new annualized premiums from our operations other than Gibraltar Life increased $130 million, or 29%. The $130 million increase included $51 million from our existing operation in Japan, reflecting an increase in the number of Life Planners from 1,811 at December 31, 2000 to 1,992 at December 31, 2001 as well as $25 million of new annualized premiums sold by the Gibraltar Life sales force for our existing operation prior to the acquisition date. After that date, the Gibraltar Life sales force has distributed only Gibraltar products. For all countries other than Japan, also on a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $79 million, or 59%, with $76 million of the increase coming from our operations in Korea and Taiwan. The increase in countries other than Japan reflects an increase in the number of Life Planners, from 1,684 at December 31, 2000 to 2,112 at December 31, 2001, as well as an increase in Life Planner productivity. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. New annualized premiums increased $111 million, or 28%, from $398 million in 1999 to $509 million in 2000, including the favorable impact of currency exchange fluctuations. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $82 million, or 22%. For all countries other than Japan, on a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $45 million, or 51%, with $44 million of the increase coming from our operations in Korea and Taiwan. The increase in countries other than Japan reflects an increase in the number of Life Planners, from 1,203 at December 31, 1999 to 1,684 at December 31, 2000, which we attribute to our recruitment program and retention of existing Life Planners. New annualized premiums in Japan, on a constant exchange rate basis, increased $37 million, or 13%, reflecting an increase in the number of Life Planners from 1,681 at December 31, 1999 to 1,811 at December 31, 2000. As discussed below under " Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors," in April 1999 Japanese regulators approved a reduction in the required interest rates for most of the products we sell due to the low interest rate environment in that country. We believe that customer purchases of life insurance in 1999 in anticipation of this change before it was implemented benefited 1999 sales, partially offsetting the impact of additional Life Planners in 2000. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these 114 products. Interest rates guaranteed in our Japanese insurance contracts are regulated by Japanese authorities. Between July 1, 1996 and April 1, 1999, we guaranteed premium rates using an interest rate of 3.1% on most of the products we sold even though the yield on Japanese government and high quality corporate bonds was less than that much of this time. This resulted in some negative investment spreads over this period. As a consequence, our profitability with respect to these products in Japan during that period resulted primarily from margins on mortality charges and expenses. In response to the low interest rate environment, Japanese regulators approved a reduction in the required rates for most of the products we sell to 2.35% in April of 1999, which has allowed us to charge higher premiums on new business for the same amount of insurance. While this has also resulted in an improvement in investment spreads, these spreads had a negative impact on adjusted operating income from our Japanese insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life in each of the three years ended December 31, 2001 and the profitability of these products in Japan continues to result primarily from margins on mortality charges and expenses. In 2001, Japanese regulators approved further reductions in the required interest rates applicable to most of the products we sell. As a result, we increased premium rates on most of our products sold in Japan when the new rates were implemented, in April 2001 for some products and in October 2001 for other products. Additionally, interest rates on our guaranteed products sold in Korea are regulated by Korean authorities, who implemented, in April 2001, a reduction in the required rates for most of the products we sell, allowing us to charge higher premiums on new business for the same amount of insurance. While these actions enhance our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products in Korea, as in Japan, are margins from mortality and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in the countries in which we operate on mandated mortality tables. Our mortality experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis for each of the three years ended December 31, 2001 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. International Securities and Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Securities and Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues.................... $548 $704 $580 Expenses.................... 636 678 565 Adjusted operating income... $(88) $ 26 $ 15 Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. The International Securities and Investments segment reported a pre tax loss of $88 million, on an adjusted operating income basis, for 2001 compared to adjusted operating income of $26 million for 2000. The $114 million decrease came from our international securities operations, including our futures operations, reflecting the slowdown in equity markets which began after the early part of 2000 as well as $21 million greater expenses in 2001 relating to staff reductions and facilities consolidations. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2000 benefited from a $21 million gain from our interest in the conversion of London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock and Futures Exchange seats into listed shares and trading rights. Losses from our international investments operations amounted to $44 million in 2001 and $51 million in 2000, as increased expenses from the expansion of this developing business essentially offset its revenue growth. The International Securities and Investments segment reported a loss of $47 million on an adjusted operating income basis, for the fourth quarter of 2001. 115 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $11 million from 1999 to 2000. Adjusted operating income from our international securities operations, including our futures operations, increased $30 million in 2000 from 1999, including a $21 million gain in 2000 from our interest in the conversion of stock exchange seats as discussed above. Our international securities operations benefited from continued active U.S. equity markets, particularly during the early part of 2000. An $11 million decline in adjusted operating income from our futures operations due to reduced volatility in the global commodity and foreign exchange markets in 2000 was a partial offset. Losses from our international investments operations increased $19 million, from $32 million in 1999 to $51 million in 2000, reflecting increased expenses from the expansion of this developing business. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $156 million, or 22%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came from a $177 million decrease in revenues from our international securities operations, which include our futures operations. The $177 million decrease came primarily from lower commission revenues associated with reduced transaction volume, reflecting the less active equity markets in comparison to 2000 which benefited from exceptionally active equity markets in the early part of the year. In addition, revenues for 2000 included the $21 million gain from our interest in the conversion of stock exchange seats as noted above. Revenues from our international investments operations increased $21 million, primarily from asset management fees and commissions earned by recently acquired units. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $124 million, or 21%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came primarily from a $106 million increase in revenues from our international securities operations. The increase reflected higher commission revenues associated with increased transaction volume, primarily due to active U.S. equity markets particularly during the early part of 2000, higher fee revenues from a London based broker and asset manager that we acquired in 1999, and the $21 million gain from our interest in the conversion of stock exchange seats as noted above. The increase in revenues also reflects an increase in the number of international Financial Advisors to 620 at December 31, 2000 from 577 a year earlier. The remainder of the increase in revenues came from our international investments operations, reflecting their expansion as noted above. Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $42 million, or 6%, from 2000 to 2001. Expenses of our international securities operations decreased $56 million, due primarily to decreases in revenue based compensation costs. During 2001, our international securities operations incurred $30 million of expenses relating to staff reductions and facilities consolidations, while expenses in 2000 reflected about $9 million of such costs. Expenses of our international investments operations increased $14 million, reflecting expenses from recently acquired units. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $113 million, or 20%, from 1999 to 2000. Expenses of our international securities operations increased $76 million, primarily as a result of increased compensation paid to Financial Advisors on higher commission revenues, increased formula based and incentive compensation on higher revenues and earnings, increased expenses from a London based broker and asset manager that we acquired in 1999 and costs to expand our securities operations in Asia and Latin America. Expenses of our international investment operations increased $37 million, reflecting expenses from the development of this business. Asset Management Division The Asset Management division, through our Investment Management and Advisory Services segment, receives asset based management fees from the businesses of the U.S. Consumer and Employee Benefits divisions, from third parties, and also from the Closed Block Business. The Other Asset Management segment includes our commercial mortgage securitization operations and investment research activities supporting our Private Client Group operations. This segment also participates in securities underwritings where our research 116 efforts are attractive to issuers and lead underwriters, engages in equity securities sales and trading, manages our hedge portfolios. We include the divisions asset based management fees in the line captioned "Commissions and other income" in our consolidated statements of operations. The Asset Management division pays the expenses of its own portfolio managers for asset management and the expenses of its own proprietary sales force for distribution of products to third parties. Profitability of the Asset Management division depends primarily on our ability to develop and retain a base of assets under management, both through the U.S. Consumer and Employee Benefits divisions and directly from third parties, on which we can earn asset based fees, and to manage the level of expenses incurred in the management of those assets. We generally base asset management fees on the market value of the underlying assets and, accordingly, profitability varies as these market values change due to external factors, such as securities market conditions and interest rates and other factors that may affect the values of particular investments. We also earn transaction based and performance based fees which depend on such external factors. In addition, revenue streams, including mark to market adjustments, from our commercial mortgage securitizations and hedge portfolios are subject to market fluctuations. Division Results The following table sets forth the Asset Management divisions results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Division operating results: Revenues(1)....................................... $1,272 $1,344 $1,141 Benefits and expenses............................. 1,053 1,068 889 Adjusted operating income......................... $ 219 $ 276 $ 252 Adjusted operating income by segment: Investment Management and Advisory Services....... $ 105 $ 154 $ 155 Other Asset Management............................ 114 122 97 Total........................................... 219 276 252 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains, net of losses.......... (8) 1 1 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 211 $ 277 $ 253 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our Asset Management division decreased $57 million, or 21%, in 2001 from 2000, due to declines from both segments in the division. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $66 million, or 24%, primarily as a result of the decrease in adjusted operating income. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income of our Asset Management division increased $24 million, or 10%, in 2000 from 1999, due to an increase from the Other Asset Management segment. Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased $24 million, or 9%, as a result of the increase in adjusted operating income. 117 Investment Management and Advisory Services Operating Results The following table sets forth the Investment Management and Advisory Services segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1)................. $835 $874 $768 Expenses.................... 730 720 613 Adjusted operating income... $105 $154 $155 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $49 million, or 32%, from 2000 to 2001, due primarily to lower earnings from asset management resulting from declines in market value of the underlying assets on which our fees are based. Although 2000 adjusted operating income reflected expenses related to the consolidation of substantially all of our public equity management capabilities into our Jennison unit, these expenses were largely offset by revenues from performance incentive fees which exceeded those earned in 2001. Adjusted operating income in 2001 includes $6 million from the operations of a specialized asset management unit within this segment that we sold in the first quarter of 2002. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income was flat from 1999 to 2000. Although revenues increased, the increase was essentially offset primarily by expenses related to the consolidation of substantially all of our public equity management capabilities into our Jennison unit. Revenues The following table sets forth the Investment Management and Advisory Services segments revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," by source for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Revenues: Retail customers(1)....... $210 $244 $225 Institutional customers... 383 409 322 General account........... 242 221 221 Total revenue........... $835 $874 $768 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance in our separate accounts. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in general account. Also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $39 million, or 4%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came primarily from declines of $34 million, or 14%, in revenues from management of retail customer assets and $26 million, or 6%, in revenues from management of institutional customer assets. The decrease in revenues from management of retail customer assets came primarily from market value declines on publicly traded equity securities which resulted in a lower level of average assets under management. The decrease in revenues from management of institutional customer assets reflected a $25 million performance incentive fee earned in 2000. Revenues from management of general account assets increased $21 million, reflecting increased market values on fixed income securities. 118 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $106 million, or 14%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase was principally a result of an $87 million increase in revenues from management of institutional customer assets, which included $32 million of mortgage origination and servicing revenues from a subsidiary we acquired in 2000. The remainder of the increase came primarily from a $25 million performance incentive fee as well as increased revenue from our real estate and private equity advisory businesses. Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," were essentially unchanged from 2000 to 2001, as our 2001 results included expenses for the entire year relating to the mortgage origination and servicing activities of a subsidiary that we acquired in June 2000, while our 2000 results included approximately $40 million of expenses related to the consolidation of substantially all of our public equity management capabilities into our Jennison unit. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $107 million, or 17%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase reflected approximately $40 million of expenses related to the consolidation of substantially all of our public equity management capabilities into our Jennison unit and $24 million of expenses related to the mortgage origination and servicing activities of the subsidiary we acquired in 2000. The remainder of the increase came primarily from compensation charges that are linked to revenues and costs to expand our domestic and European proprietary investment activities. Other Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Other Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues.................. $437 $470 $373 Expenses.................. 323 348 276 Adjusted operating income. $114 $122 $ 97 Adjusted Operating Income 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $8 million, or 7%, in 2001 from 2000. The decrease came from a $25 million decline in adjusted operating income from our equity sales and trading operations, partially offset by a $17 million increase from our commercial mortgage securitization operations and hedge portfolios. Adjusted operating income from our equity sales and trading operations in 2001 included $20 million that Prudential Securities earned as co manager in the initial public offering of our Common Stock during the fourth quarter of 2001, which is offset by a corresponding charge in our Corporate and Other results. Absent this item, adjusted operating income from our equity sales and trading operations in 2001 was $35 million, a decrease of $45 million or 56% from 2000. This decrease reflected a decline in our revenues from principal trading activities supporting retail and institutional customers as well as increased costs from employee terminations associated with staff reductions and facilities consolidations. Adjusted operating income from our commercial mortgage securitization operations and hedge portfolios increased $17 million to $59 million in 2001 from $42 million in 2000. The increase came primarily from our mortgage securitization operations, which benefited from changes in market value of financial instruments held pending securitizations. As of December 31, 2001, the hedge portfolios held assets, including both principal positions and securities financing positions, of approximately $3.9 billion, compared to $7.9 billion at December 31, 2000. 119 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $25 million, or 26%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came primarily from a $26 million increase in adjusted operating income from our equity sales and trading operations, from $54 million in 1999 to $80 million in 2000, primarily due to increased trading volume in the equity markets during the first four months of 2000. Results from our commercial mortgage securitization operations and hedge portfolios were essentially unchanged in 2000 from 1999. As of December 31, 2000, the hedge portfolios held assets, including both principal positions and securities financing positions, of approximately $7.9 billion, compared to $5.9 billion a year earlier. Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $33 million, or 7%, from 2000 to 2001. The decrease came from a decline in revenues from our equity sales and trading operations, from $404 million in 2000 to $347 million in 2001, which included revenues of $22 million that Prudential Securities received as co manager in the initial public offering of our Common Stock. Excluding this item, revenues from our equity sales and trading operations declined $79 million, or 20%, in 2001 from 2000. Revenues in 2001 were negatively affected by reduced revenues from principal trading supporting retail and institutional customers, while 2000 revenues benefited from exceptionally active equity securities markets during the first four months of the year. The reduced principal trading revenues we experienced in 2001 reflected lower transaction volume in the equity securities markets resulting from decreased individual investor trading activity, as well as reduced securities trading spreads. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $97 million, or 26%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came from a $102 million increase in revenues from our equity sales and trading operations, from $302 million in 1999 to $404 million in 2000. The equity sales and trading operations benefited from increased volume from retail activity associated with the strength of the technology sector early in 2000, as well as increased transaction volume from institutional clients. Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $25 million, or 7%, from 2000 to 2001. The decline came from a decrease of $32 million in our equity sales and trading operations, from $324 million in 2000 to $292 million in 2001, reflecting decreased compensation expenses driven by the declines in revenue and earnings. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $72 million, or 26%, from 1999 to 2000. The increase came from an increase of $76 million in our equity sales and trading operations, from $248 million in 1999 to $324 million in 2000, reflecting increased employee compensation expenses driven by increased revenue and earnings as well as increased expenses to expand our equity research capabilities. Corporate and Other Operations Corporate and Other operations includes corporate level activities that we do not allocate to our business segments. It also consists of international ventures, divested businesses and businesses that we have placed in wind down status, but that we have not divested. The latter businesses include individual health insurance, group credit insurance and Canadian life insurance. The divested businesses include the lead managed equity underwriting for corporate issuers and institutional fixed income businesses of Prudential Securities, Gibraltar Casualty Company, a Canadian life insurance subsidiary, and our divested residential first mortgage banking business. As previously discussed, we exclude the gains, losses and contributions to income/loss of the divested businesses from adjusted operating income. The following table and discussion present results of these activities based on our definition of adjusted operating income, which is a non GAAP measure, as well as income from continuing operations before income taxes, which is prepared in accordance with GAAP. As shown below, in addition to the gains, losses and contributions to income/loss of divested businesses, adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses, sales practices remedies and costs and demutualization costs and expenses. 120 The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. You should not view adjusted operating income as a substitute for income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP, and you should note that our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. We exclude realized investment gains, net of losses because the timing of transactions resulting in recognition of gains or losses is largely at our discretion and the amount of these gains or losses is heavily influenced by and fluctuates in part according to the availability of market opportunities. Including the fluctuating effects of these transactions could distort trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses. We exclude sales practices remedies and costs because they relate to a substantial and identifiable non recurring event. We exclude the gains and losses and contribution to income/loss of divested businesses because, as a result of our decision to dispose of these businesses, these results are not relevant to the profitability of our ongoing operations and could distort the trends associated with our ongoing businesses. We exclude demutualization costs and expenses because they are directly related to our demutualization and could distort the trends associated with our business operations. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Adjusted operating income: Corporate level activities(1)............................ $ 70 $ (22) $ 126 Other businesses: International ventures................................. (50) (32) (11) Other.................................................. 8 50 22 Total............................................... 28 (4) 137 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Sales practices remedies and costs....................... (100) Realized investment gains, net of losses................. 187 (280) 357 Divested businesses...................................... (147) (636) (47) Demutualization costs and expenses....................... (588) (143) (75) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $(520) $(1,063) $ 272 (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. Corporate level activities consist primarily of corporate level income and expenses not allocated to any of our business segments, including costs for company wide initiatives such as enhancement of our Internet capabilities and income from our qualified pension plans, as well as investment returns on our unallocated equity, which is capital that is not deployed in any of our segments. Our Corporate and Other operations also include returns from investments that we do not allocate to any of our business segments, including a debt financed investment portfolio, and transactions with other segments. Our policy is to include expenses incurred by corporate level functions such as operations and systems, human resources, financial management, auditing, law and compliance in the operating results of our business segments to the extent that the expenses are either directly or indirectly attributable to the operations of the segment. We include expenses incurred by corporate level functions that are not allocated to any of our business segments, such as research and development pertaining to company wide information technology applications or marketing expenses not specific to a particular business unit, in corporate level activities. 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $28 million in 2001 and a $4 million loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, in 2000, an increase of $32 million. Corporate level activities resulted in adjusted operating income of $70 million in 2001 and a $22 million loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, in 2000. The $92 million increase came primarily from $125 million greater income from our own qualified pension plan and a $22 million reduction in hedging losses retained at the corporate level, partially offset by reduced investment income and a $20 million charge offsetting the income earned by Prudential Securities as co manager in the initial public offering of our Common Stock, which is included in adjusted operating income of our Other Asset Management segment. 121 Income from our own qualified pension plan amounted to $540 million in 2001, compared to $415 million in 2000. The $125 million increase came primarily from increased income on pension assets and amortization of deferred gains. This income is partially offset in our consolidated results by charges for our other retirement plans allocated both to Corporate and Other operations and our business segments. On a consolidated basis, our net pension credit related to continuing operations amounted to $457 million in 2001 and $362 million in 2000. The contribution to adjusted operating income from income from our own qualified pension plan has increased during recent periods. We expect that income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted operating income in 2002 at a level about 10% below that of 2001. Hedging losses retained at the corporate level decreased $22 million, from $26 million in 2000 to $4 million in 2001. The increase in income from our own qualified pension plan and decrease in hedging losses were partially offset by reductions in investment income from our debt financed investment portfolio and from invested assets that we held pending disbursement for sales practices remedies and costs. Investment income from the debt financed investment portfolio, net of interest expense, contributed $38 million to adjusted operating income for 2001 compared to $98 million for 2000, as a result of a decline in the assets in the portfolio to approximately $223 million at December 31, 2001 from $3.7 billion a year earlier. We have taken actions to reduce this portfolio and repay the related borrowings, and expect that we will continue to do so. Accordingly, we expect that the contribution to adjusted operating income from this debt financed portfolio will decline in future periods. Income from invested assets related to sales practices remedies and costs declined $25 million as disbursements were made to satisfy these liabilities. Investment income for 2001 included about $15 million relating to assets initially invested within our Corporate and Other operations as a result of transactions relating to our demutualization, effective as of December 18, 2001. About half of this investment income represents earnings on assets corresponding to cash payments in January 2002 for demutualization consideration in lieu of Common Stock. General and administrative expenses at the corporate level, on a gross basis before qualified pension income, amounted to $682 million in 2001 compared to $687 million in 2000. Commencing in 2002, we expect to incur additional expenses associated with servicing our stockholder base, including mailing and printing fees, of up to $60 million annually. However, we have taken actions to reduce expenses at the corporate level and, while there can be no assurance, we expect that these actions will result in expense reductions commencing in 2002 that will more than offset the impact of these shareholder servicing costs. Other businesses included in Corporate and Other operations resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $42 million in 2001 compared to adjusted operating income of $18 million in 2000. The $60 million decline came primarily from the benefit to 2000 results from reductions of reserves for future claims in our remaining Canadian insurance operations and our wind down group credit insurance operations, and from an $18 million increase in losses from start up international ventures. Income from continuing operations before income taxes amounted to a loss of $520 million in 2001, compared to a loss of $1.063 billion in 2000. The $543 million decrease in the loss came primarily from a $489 million decrease in losses from divested businesses which included, in 2000, charges of $476 million associated with the termination and wind down of Prudential Securities former lead managed equity underwriting for corporate issuers and institutional fixed income businesses, and from $187 million of realized investment gains in 2001 compared to $280 million of realized investment losses in 2000. However, we incurred demutualization costs and expenses of $588 million in 2001, including a charge of $340 million for demutualization consideration to former Canadian branch policyholders, compared to $143 million of demutualization expenses in 2000. For a discussion of sales practices remedies and costs, realized investment gains, net of losses, divested businesses and demutualization costs and expenses, see " Consolidated Results of Operations Sales Practices Remedies and Costs," " Realized Investment Gains," " Divested Businesses" and " Demutualization Costs and Expenses." 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations resulted in a pre tax loss of $4 million in 2000, compared to pre tax income of $137 million in 1999, on an adjusted operating income basis. The $141 million decline came primarily from corporate level activities. Corporate level activities resulted in a pre tax loss of $22 million in 2000, compared to pre tax income of $126 million in 1999. The $148 million decline resulted primarily from a one time $114 million reduction of 122 liabilities for our own employee benefits that we recorded in 1999 due to a clarification of law that led us to take into account previously unrecognized assets in that amount. Corporate level activities benefited from income related to our own qualified pension plan amounting to $415 million in 2000 compared to $197 million in 1999, an increase of $218 million. This income is partially offset in our consolidated results by charges for our other retirement plans allocated both to Corporate and Other operations and our business segments. On a consolidated basis, our net pension credit related to continuing operations amounted to $362 million in 2000 and $201 million in 1999. The increase in pension plan income came primarily from a reduction in the number of plan participants due to the sale of our healthcare operations in 1999, increased income on pension assets and amortization of deferred gains. Amendments to our pension and postretirement plans in 2000 did not have a material effect on our results of operations. The $218 million increase in qualified pension plan income was offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses, and a reduction of investment income net of interest expense at the corporate level. General and administrative expenses at the corporate level, on a gross basis before qualified pension income, were $687 million in 2000 compared to $576 million in 1999. The $111 million increase came primarily from costs incurred during 2000 for company wide technology development including enhancement of our Internet capabilities. The decrease in investment income net of interest expense, from $386 million in 1999 to $303 million in 2000, resulted primarily from a reduction in invested assets related to sales practices remedies and costs as disbursements were made to satisfy these liabilities. Income from continuing operations before income taxes declined $1.335 billion, from $272 million in 1999 to a loss of $1.063 billion in 2000. The increase in losses came primarily from a $637 million decline in realized investment gains, net of losses, and from the former lead managed underwriting and institutional fixed income businesses of Prudential Securities, as well as the $141 million decline in adjusted operating income and a $68 million increase in demutualization expenses. Closed Block Business As discussed under "Overview Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business," we established the Closed Block Business effective at the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business, which represents results of our Traditional Participating Products segment prior to the demutualization, includes our in force traditional participating life insurance and annuity products, and assets that will be used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies. Also concurrently with our demutualization, PHLLC issued the IHC debt. We allocated the majority of the net proceeds from the issuance of the IHC debt to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we report results of the Closed Block Business, including interest expense associated with the IHC debt. Upon the establishment of the Closed Block Business, we transferred $5.6 billion of net assets previously associated with the Traditional Participating Products segment to the Financial Services Businesses. This capital was initially allocated to our Corporate and Other operations as of the date of our demutualization. As a result, adjusted operating income of the Closed Block Business does not include returns on these net assets, which were historically included in adjusted operating income of the Traditional Participating Products segment. At the end of each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable for participating policies for the following year based on its statutory results and past experience, including investment income, net realized gains over a number of years, mortality experience and other factors. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we developed an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block, and if actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expect, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than what we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any such policyholder dividend obligations that we recognize in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by 123 the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. If cumulative performance is less favorable than we expected, the policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will be the actual dividends declared by the Board of Directors. For the portion of the year ended December 31, 2001 subsequent to the date of demutualization, there was no required charge to recognize a policyholder dividend obligation. Operating Results The following table sets forth the Closed Block Businesss operating results for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues(1).............................................................. $ 8,271 $8,638 $8,376 Benefits and expenses(2)................................................. 7,835 8,091 8,060 Adjusted operating income................................................ 436 547 316 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges: Realized investment gains, net of losses................................. (543) 91 338 Related charges(3)....................................................... (512) (445) (310) Total realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges..... (1,055) (354) 28 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes................ $ (619) $ 193 $ 344 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude the impact of net realized investment gains on dividends to policyholders. (3) Related charges consist of the portion of dividends to policyholders attributable to realized investment gains, net of losses. Adjusted Operating Income and Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $111 million, or 20%, in 2001 from 2000. The decrease in adjusted operating income reflected $144 million of reserves established in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we have not received a death claim but where death has occurred. We have made substantial efforts to identify policyholders for whom we lack current information and the $144 million reserve recorded represents a revision to our past estimate of incurred but not reported death claims and related expenses. Upon demutalization $134 million of this reserve became a liability of the Financial Services Businesses, and any subsequent reestimation of the liability (upward or downward) will be included in adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. Additionally, the effect of aging of policies in force on policyholder benefits and related reserves exceeded the returns on the underlying assets. These developments were partially offset by a $141 million reduction in the charge for policyholder dividends, a $56 million reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, and a $26 million decline in operating expenses. The $141 million reduction in the charge for policyholder dividends, which excludes the portion of the dividend related to net realized investment gains, reflects dividend scale changes for 2002. Income from continuing operations before income taxes amounted to a loss of $619 million in 2001, compared to income of $193 million in 2000, with the decline primarily due to a $701 million decrease in realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges. For a discussion of realized investment gains and losses, and charges related to realized investment gains and losses, see " Consolidated Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains." 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $231 million, or 73%, in 2000 from 1999. The increase came primarily from a $180 million increase in investment income, net of interest expense, and a $93 million decline in operating expenses. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $151 million, or 44%, in 2000 from 1999, primarily as a result of a $382 million decline in realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges, partially offset by the increase in adjusted operating income. 124 Revenues 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $367 million, or 4%, in 2001 from 2000. Premiums decreased $105 million, or 2%, from $4.355 billion in 2000 to $4.250 billion in 2001, as an increase in paid up additions which represent additional insurance purchased with policyholder dividends was more than offset by lower renewal premiums. We expect the decline in premiums for this business to continue as the policies in force mature or terminate over time, as we have discontinued sales of traditional participating products in connection with our demutualization. Net investment income decreased $275 million, or 7%, from $4.172 billion in 2000 to $3.897 billion in 2001. The decrease, which was partially offset by a $118 million decrease in interest expense, as discussed below, reflects a decline in the general account invested assets supporting this business due to a lower level of borrowing activity, and a lower investment yield. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $262 million, or 3%, in 2000 from 1999. Premiums were relatively unchanged, amounting to $4.355 billion in 2000 and $4.303 billion in 1999, as an increase in paid up additions which represent additional insurance purchased with policyholder dividends was essentially offset by lower first year and renewal premiums. Paid up additions, along with policyholder dividends, have continued to grow as the average length of time our traditional whole life insurance policies have been in force increases. The decline in first year and renewal premiums reflects a shift in our sales during recent years away from traditional whole life into variable life insurance products. We believe the trend from traditional whole life to variable life reflects shifts in industry wide consumer demand, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. Net investment income increased $261 million, or 7%, from $3.911 billion in 1999 to $4.172 billion in 2000. The increase, which was partially offset by an $81 million increase in interest expense, as discussed below, resulted from an increase in investment yield and an increase in the base of general account invested assets. Benefits and Expenses 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under " Operating Results," decreased $256 million, or 3%, in 2001 from 2000. Interest expense declined $118 million, from $152 million in 2000 to $34 million in 2001, primarily due to a lower level of borrowing activity associated with the decrease in investment income. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $56 million, from $269 million in 2000 to $213 million in 2001, as these costs became fully amortized on a portion of this business. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $26 million, or 3%, from $771 million in 2000 to $745 million in 2001, as a result of our continued efforts to reduce operating cost levels. While there can be no assurance that our anticipated cost reductions will be fully achieved, we believe that our cost reduction initiatives will reduce operating expenses of the business included in the Closed Block Business below 2000 levels by approximately $100 million on an annual basis in 2002, including a reduction of about $40 million below the level of 2001, and that reduced expenses resulting from these initiatives will benefit results of this business thereafter. However, under the terms of the Closed Block, expenses of the Closed Block will be based on a formula representing historical expenses attributable to the Closed Block. To the extent actual expenses of the Closed Block Business vary in the future from those established pursuant to the formula, the variance (positive or negative) will inure to the financial results of our Financial Services Businesses. These variances will be treated as adjustments in determining the earnings applicable to our Common Stock and Class B Stock. Adjusted operating income of the Closed Block Business included costs of implementing our expense reduction program amounting to $48 million in 2001 and $52 million in 2000. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, including interest credited to policyholders, increased $84 million, from $4.638 billion in 2000 to $4.722 billion for 2001. The increase in benefits and reserves resulted from death benefits, including $138 million of reserves recorded in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we have not received a death claim but where death has occurred, and the aging of policies in force, as well as insurance claims relating to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, which resulted in net losses of approximately $10 million. Partially offsetting these items is a reduction in the amount of reserves established for new and renewal business, consistent with our discontinuation of sales of traditional products discussed above. Dividends to policyholders, which excludes the portion of dividends relating to net realized investment gains as discussed under " Consolidated Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains" above, amounted 125 to $2.121 billion in 2001, a decrease of $140 million, or 6%, from $2.261 billion in 2000. There was no adjustment to the dividend scale in 2001 from the scale of 2000. The decrease relates to the portion of our dividend provision related to dividends for the subsequent year and reflects dividend scale changes for 2002 based on evaluation of the experience underlying the dividend scale. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses were essentially unchanged in 2000 from 1999. An $81 million increase in interest expense, from $71 million in 1999 to $152 million in 2000, relates primarily to a higher level of borrowing activity associated with the increase in investment income. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves and interest credited to policyholders increased $76 million, from $4.562 billion in 1999 to $4.638 billion in 2000, reflecting the continued increase in the length of time that the policies have been in force. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $96 million, or 11%, from $867 million in 1999 to $771 million in 2000, as a result of our continued efforts to reduce operating cost levels which resulted in reduced employee costs. Dividends to policyholders, which excludes the portion of dividends relating to net realized investment gains as discussed under " Consolidated Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains" above, amounted to $2.261 billion in 2000, relatively unchanged from $2.246 billion in 1999. There was no adjustment to the dividend scale for 2000 from the scale for 1999. Mortality experience for both 2000 and 1999 was consistent, on an overall basis, with our pricing assumptions. Sales Results New statutory premiums from sales of traditional participating individual life insurance products amounted to $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, $49 million for 2000, and $61 million for 1999. The limited sales of these products reflect a continuing shift in our sales during recent years away from traditional whole life into variable life insurance products. We ceased sales of traditional participating products in connection with our demutualization. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth policy surrender experience for the Closed Block Business, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to the income statement impact of surrenders under GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 ($ in millions) Cash value of surrenders....................................................... $1,246 $1,217 $1,226 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves 2.7% 2.7% 2.9% 2001 to 2000 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $29 million, or 2%, from 2000 to 2001, primarily as a result of our efforts to locate policyholders in connection with our demutualization. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves was unchanged from 2000 to 2001. 2000 to 1999 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders was essentially unchanged from 1999 to 2000. Traditional life policy surrenders reflected $109 million of surrenders in 2000 associated with the implementation of the sales practices remediation program. The levels of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves remained relatively constant from 1999 to 2000. 126 Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Prudential Financials principal source of revenues to meet its obligations, including the payment of shareholder dividends, debt service, capital contributions to subsidiaries as may be required, and operating expenses, are dividends and interest income from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. At December 31, 2001, Prudential Financial had substantial excess cash liquidity, including cash and short term investments of approximately $4.4 billion as a result of $6.0 billion of funds received in the fourth quarter of 2001, less net application of $1.6 billion of funds to our operating businesses. The $6.0 billion of funds received were from the following sources: . net proceeds from the initial public offering, including the underwriters exercise of their option to purchase 16.5 million additional shares, of $3.337 billion; . the net proceeds from the offering of the equity security units, including the underwriters exercise of their option to purchase 1.8 million additional units, of $663 million; . net proceeds from the issuance of the Class B Stock of $167 million, and net proceeds from the IHC debt of $1.218 billion; and . dividends in late December 2001 from our property and casualty insurance subsidiary of $525 million and from our asset management subsidiary of $40 million. The net uses of $1.6 billion of funds at our operating businesses were comprised primarily of capital contributions and loans to several operating units. Approximately $2.3 billion of the $4.4 billion cash and short term investments at Prudential Financial as of December 31, 2001, were applied in early 2002 to pay cash demutualization consideration to eligible policyholders in our demutualization. Prudential Financial remains obligated to disburse further payments of approximately $800 million, representing demutualization consideration for eligible policyholders we were unable to locate. To the extent we are unable to locate these policyholders within a prescribed period of time specified by state escheat laws, typically three to seven years, the funds must be remitted to governmental authorities. We anticipate that Prudential Financial will establish several financing programs to satisfy needs for cash and capital at the parent company level and for the destacked subsidiaries and will eventually serve as the primary financing company for the destacked subsidiaries. Prudential Funding, LLC ("Prudential Funding"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, has historically served as the primary financing company for Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries as discussed under " Financing Activities" below and will continue to provide a limited amount of financing for the destacked subsidiaries. Rating organizations have assigned lower credit ratings to Prudential Financial than Prudential Funding. As a result, we expect that some of our financing costs will increase as we transition existing financing from Prudential Funding to Prudential Financial. On the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial made a capital contribution of approximately $1.05 billion to Prudential Insurance to replenish the reduction of its capital in that amount which resulted from distribution of demutualization compensation to some policyholders in the form of policy credits rather than Common Stock or cash. The capital contribution was financed with the proceeds from the purchase by Prudential Insurance of a series of notes issued by Prudential Financial with market rates of interest and maturities ranging from nineteen months to three years. On January 22, 2002, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $1 billion of its Common Stock. The timing and amount of any purchases of Common Stock under the authorization will be determined by management based on market condition and other considerations, and such purchases may be effected by market or negotiated transactions, including programs adopted under Rule 10b5 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 127 Our insurance, broker dealer and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. For the reason noted in the following paragraph, the ability of Prudential Insurance to pay stockholder dividends will be constrained in the initial years following demutualization. The principal sources of funds to meet Prudential Financials obligations, including the payment of dividends to its stockholders, will be the net proceeds, after the foregoing cash payments to eligible policyholders, from the initial public offering of its Common Stock, the offering of the equity security units and the net proceeds from issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, as well as dividends from the destacked subsidiaries, and interest and fee payments from subsidiaries. New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends or distributions, all dividends or distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be declared or paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and revaluation of assets. Upon demutualization, unassigned surplus was reduced to zero, thereby limiting Prudential Insurances ability to pay a dividend immediately following demutualization. As of December 31, 2001, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus was $228 million, and there were no applicable adjustments for unrealized investment gains or revaluation of assets for purposes of the foregoing law regarding dividends and distributions. Dividendable funds are expected to grow thereafter in the ordinary course of business over time. Prudential Insurance also must notify the New Jersey insurance regulator of its intent to pay a dividend, if the dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, would exceed a specified statutory limit and obtain a non disapproval from the New Jersey insurance regulator. The current statutory limitation applicable to New Jersey life insurers generally is the greater of: (1) 10% of such insurers surplus as regards policyholders as of the December 31 next preceding the date of the proposed dividend or distribution or (2) the net gain from operations of such insurer, not including realized investment gains, for the 12 month period ending the December 31 next preceding the date of the proposed dividend or distribution, in each case determined under statutory accounting principles. Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily in relation to deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred taxes, reserve calculation assumptions and required investment reserves, including the asset valuation reserve and the interest maintenance reserve. The New Jersey insurance regulator is also authorized to disallow the payment of any dividend or distribution that would otherwise be permitted under the statutory limit if it determines that a company does not have a reasonable surplus as to policyholders relative to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs or if it finds such company to be in a hazardous financial condition. The terms of the IHC debt also contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and other circumstances. Other states and foreign jurisdictions have similar regulations to those of New Jersey which affect the ability of our other insurance companies to pay dividends. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. In addition, the net capital rules to which our broker dealer subsidiaries are subject may limit their ability to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. Consolidated Liquidity and Financial Leverage Management We manage our liquidity and capital resources on a company wide basis, as well as by legal entity and business, recognizing regulatory restrictions on transfers of funds among entities engaged in the insurance, securities and other businesses. We seek to manage our consolidated liquidity position so that we have, on a cost effective basis, adequate resources to satisfy operating cash requirements and investment objectives, as well as to fund business growth. We also seek to manage our liquidity so that we have adequate sources of funding to support our needs under stress scenarios so that we can meet our obligations without materially disrupting our operating and investing activities. We borrow money on an ongoing basis to support our business operations and strategies and seek to do so in a manner consistent with maintaining and seeking to improve our current credit ratings. We manage our borrowing according to company wide, legal entity and business borrowing limits, which are monitored by our 128 Treasurers department and reviewed regularly by the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. To this end, we monitor a number of financial leverage measures on a legal entity and on a consolidated basis, including our ratios of corporate debt to capital, liabilities to equity capital, liquid assets to short term liabilities, and various other capitalization and liquidity ratios. We seek to reduce our liquidity and refinancing risks by employing a variety of liability management techniques, including staggering of maturities, actively utilizing alternative sources of financing, investor base diversification, and maintaining lines of credit in excess of the amount we believe will actually be required in a stress scenario. Financing Activities Our financing principally consists of unsecured short and long term debt borrowings and asset based or secured forms of financing. These secured financing arrangements include transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements, which we generally use to finance portfolios of liquid securities. Prudential Funding historically has served as a financing company for Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries and has facilitated the centralized management of most unsecured borrowing arrangements with unrelated parties on a company wide basis. Prudential Funding borrows funds primarily through the direct issuance of commercial paper, private placement medium term notes, Eurobonds, Eurocommercial paper, and Euro medium term notes and lends the proceeds of its borrowings to Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries, generally at cost. Borrowings of the destacked subsidiaries from Prudential Funding have been repriced to market terms as of the date of demutualization. Prudential Securities also engages in external unsecured financing. We anticipate that Prudential Fundings outstanding borrowings will decline over time as it transitions into a financing company primarily for Prudential Insurance and its remaining subsidiaries. We anticipate that our other companies will borrow on market terms from third parties. Under a support agreement, Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth at all times. We manage Prudential Fundings borrowings so that cash inflows from the operating companies to Prudential Funding are sufficient to meet Prudential Fundings debt service requirements. Prudential Funding also generally maintains cash and short term investments that can be used in the event of cash flow timing differences. Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding have unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.1 billion, of which $1.5 billion expires in October 2002, $0.1 billion expires during 2003, $1.0 billion expires in May 2004, and the remaining $1.5 billion expires in October 2006. Borrowings under the facility expiring in October 2002 must mature no later than October 2003, and borrowings under the other facilities must mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities. The facility expiring in May 2004 includes 33 financial institutions, many of which are also among the 27 financial institutions participating in the other facilities. Up to $2.5 billion of the amount available under these facilities can be utilized by Prudential Financial. The $2.5 billion consists of $500 million, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion made available under the facilities expiring in October 2002, May 2004 and October 2006, respectively. We use these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law. Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital as of December 31, 2001 was $10.0 billion. The ability of Prudential Financial to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on its maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, based on GAAP. Prudential Financials consolidated net worth totaled $20.5 billion as of December 31, 2001. In addition, we have an uncommitted credit facility utilizing a third party sponsored, asset backed commercial paper conduit, under which we can borrow up to $1.0 billion. Our actual ability to borrow under this facility depends on market conditions. This facility expires in June 2002. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from banks and other financial institutions. 129 The following table sets forth our outstanding financing as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt................... $ 5,334 $11,131 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt....................................... 2,042 1,454 Surplus notes..................................... 989 988 Total general obligation long term debt........... 3,031 2,442 Total general obligations...................... 8,365 13,573 Total limited and non recourse borrowing(1)....... 2,344 60 Total borrowings................................ 10,709 13,633 Total asset based financing....................... 24,683 32,590 Total borrowings and asset based financings..... $35,392 $46,223 (1) As of December 31, 2001, $1.75 billion of limited and non recourse debt is within the Closed Block Business. Our total borrowings consist of amounts used for general corporate purposes, investment related debt, securities business related debt, and debt related to specified other businesses. Borrowings used for general corporate purposes include those used for cash flow timing mismatches, and investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries including amounts needed for regulatory capital purposes. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including real estate, real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, and institutional spread lending investment portfolios. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, real estate franchises, and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. Our borrowings as of December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, categorized by use of proceeds, are summarized below: December 31, December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) General obligations: General corporate purposes.............. $ 2,667 $ 3,158 Investment related...................... 1,420 5,254 Securities business related............. 3,123 4,426 Specified other businesses.............. 1,155 735 Total general obligations.......... 8,365 13,573 Limited and non recourse debt.............. 2,344 60 Total borrowings................... $10,709 $13,633 Long term debt............................. $ 5,304 $ 2,502 Short term debt............................ 5,405 11,131 Total borrowings................... $10,709 $13,633 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 8,959 $12,369 Borrowings of Closed Block Business........ 1,750 1,264 Total borrowings................... $10,709 $13,633 130 Total borrowings and asset based financing at December 31, 2001 decreased approximately $10.8 billion, or 23%, from December 31, 2000, reflecting a $5.7 billion decrease in short term debt, a $2.8 billion increase in long term debt, and a $7.9 billion decrease in asset based financing. The decline in short term debt resulted from decreases in our debt financed investment portfolios, reductions in subsidiary debt in our insurance operations with cash raised at the time of demutualization, and reductions in bank borrowings associated with our broker dealer operations. Long term debt increased due to the issuance by PHLLC of $1.75 billion of IHC debt related to the establishment of the Closed Block Business. We have classified this debt as limited and non recourse. In addition, long term debt has also increased $599 million due to the acquisition of Gibraltar Life. The decline in asset based financing relates primarily to reductions in asset based financed positions in our spread and hedge portfolios. Our short term debt includes bank borrowings and commercial paper outstanding under Prudential Fundings domestic and European commercial paper programs. The weighted average interest rates on the commercial paper borrowings under these programs were 4.22% for the year ended December 31, 2001; 6.31% for 2000 and 5.11% for 1999. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Fundings medium term note programs was $2.0 billion at December 31, 2001; $1.6 billion at December 31, 2000 and $1.8 billion at December 31, 1999. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Fundings long term debt, in the aggregate, were 5.94% for the year ended December 31, 2001; 6.67% for 2000 and 5.61% for 1999. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our short term and long term debt. We had outstanding surplus notes totaling $989 million at December 31, 2001 and $988 million at December 31, 2000. These debt securities, which are included as surplus of Prudential Insurance on a statutory accounting basis, are subordinate to other borrowings and to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. The ratings assigned by independent rating agencies are an important determinant of the market acceptance and cost of our financing through commercial paper, medium term notes, surplus notes and other indebtedness. We use interest rate swaps to convert some of our fixed rate long term debt to floating rates of interest and to convert some of our floating rate long term debt to fixed rates of interest, to match the interest rate sensitivity of the positions financed. We hedge currency risks related to non United States dollar borrowings by using foreign currency swaps and or foreign exchange forward contracts. See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Other Than Trading Activities Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates" below. IHC Debt Prudential Financial issued shares of Class B Stock to institutional investors in a private placement concurrently with the initial public offering of Common Stock. In connection with and at the time of the issuance of the Class B Stock, PHLLC also issued the IHC debt, a portion of which is insured by a bond insurer. We expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by, and holders of the Class B Stock will receive as dividends, net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time if and when such funds are dividended out of Prudential Insurance. Insurance, Annuities and Guaranteed Products Liquidity Our principal cash flow sources from insurance, annuities and guaranteed products are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales. We supplement these cash inflows with financing activities. We actively use our balance sheet capacity for financing activities on a secured basis through securities lending, repurchase and dollar roll transactions and on an unsecured basis for temporary cash flow mismatch coverage. Historically, we have also used our balance sheet capacity to earn additional spread income, primarily through our debt financed investment portfolio included in Corporate and Other operations, although this portfolio was substantially reduced in 2001. 131 Cash outflow requirements principally relate to benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to contract holders as well as amounts paid to policyholders and contract holders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Uses of cash also include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and debt service and repayments in connection with financing activities. Some of our products, such as guaranteed products offered to institutional customers of the Employee Benefits division, provide for payment of accumulated funds to the contract holder at a specified maturity date unless the contract holder elects to roll over the funds into another contract with us. We regularly monitor our liquidity requirements associated with policyholder and contractholder obligations so that we can manage cash inflows to match anticipated cash outflow requirements. Gross account withdrawals, including those of Gibraltar Life, which we acquired in April 2001, amounted to $9.014 billion in the year ended December 31, 2001 and $8.165 billion in the year ended December 31, 2000. These withdrawals include contractually scheduled maturities of traditional guaranteed investment contracts totaling $1.671 billion in the year ended December 31, 2001 and $1.785 billion in the year ended December 31, 2000. We experienced these large withdrawals on guaranteed products as a result of contractual expirations of products sold in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Since these contractual withdrawals, as well as the level of surrenders experienced, were consistent with our assumptions in asset liability management, the associated cash outflows did not have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Interest rate fluctuations can affect the timing of cash flows associated with our insurance and annuity liabilities as well as the value of the assets supporting these obligations. Changes in interest rates and other market conditions can also expose us to the risk of accelerated surrenders as policyholders and contract holders are attracted to alternative products. We seek to maintain an appropriate match between our assets and liabilities so that we can satisfy the changing cash flow requirements associated with interest rate fluctuations. In response to interest rate changes, we can alter our strategies for investment of new cash flows, adjust credited interest rates if and to the extent permitted by contracts, and adjust the pricing of new products. We can also adjust dividend scales on our participating products. We closely monitor surrenders and withdrawals for our life insurance and annuity contracts. Upon policy surrender, life insurance policyholders are surrendering the life insurance protection in addition to their investment in the contract, which would typically require new underwriting and acquisition costs to replace. Therefore, our exposure to increased surrenders is considerably less for life insurance policies than for annuities. In addition, many of our contracts contain provisions that discourage early surrender. Market value adjustment features in some contracts provide for adjustments of the amount available in the event of surrender to reflect changes in the value of the underlying investments. We deduct policy loans, which we report as assets, from amounts available on surrender. Some contracts impose surrender charges that we deduct in the event of surrender before specified dates. We use these surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2001 2000 % of % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions................................................... $36,935 38% $38,184 41% Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment...................................................................... 19,727 21% 22,602 24% At market value................................................................................... 24,906 26% 25,508 27% At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more............................................ 7,166 7% 1,330 1% Subtotal........................................................................................ 88,734 92% 87,624 93% Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5%......................................................................................... 7,224 8% 6,746 7% Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities....................................................... $95,958 100% $94,370 100% 132 We sell variable life insurance products that contain both general and separate account components, with the bulk of account balances in separate accounts. The principal product of this type, Variable Appreciable Life, also imposes surrender charges for the first ten years after issuance. In addition to the right to surrender, policyholders may transfer account balances between the general account and the separate account components, subject to limitations on the amount transferred and only within a 30 day period following each anniversary of the policy. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, general account balances for variable life insurance products other than single payment life were $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, while separate account balances were $13.0 billion and $13.9 billion, respectively. The table above includes as of December 31, 2001, $5.881 billion of annuity reserves and deposit liabilities of Gibraltar Life, which we acquired in April 2001. Gibraltar Lifes assets and liabilities were substantially restructured under a reorganization concurrent with our acquisition, which included the imposition of special surrender penalties on existing policies according to the following schedule (for each year ending March 31): 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 15% 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% We believe that cash flows from operating and investing activities of our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations are adequate to satisfy liquidity requirements of these operations based on our current liability structure and considering a variety of reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors including future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels and policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, we had short term investments of approximately $4.9 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, and fixed maturity investments classified as "available for sale" with fair values of $109.9 billion and $83.8 billion at those dates, respectively. At December 31, 2001, the fair value of fixed maturities available for sale included $17.6 billion related to Gibraltar Life. Additionally, the increase in fixed maturities classified as "available for sale" in the 2001 reflects our reclassification, as of January 1, 2001, of $12.1 billion fair value of fixed maturity investments that were previously classified as "held to maturity" concurrently with our adoption of new accounting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities as required by guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The latter portfolios are comprised primarily of investment grade corporate bonds and United States government obligations, substantially all of which we consider to be highly liquid and can be sold and or pledged in financing transactions. Securities Operations Liquidity Prudential Securities Group Inc. maintains a highly liquid balance sheet with substantially all of its assets consisting of securities purchased under agreements to resell, short term collateralized receivables from clients and broker dealers arising from securities transactions, marketable securities, securities borrowed and cash equivalents. Prudential Securities Groups assets totaled $22.8 billion at December 31, 2001 and $25.8 billion at December 31, 2000. Prudential Securities Groups total capitalization, including equity, subordinated debt and long term debt, was $3.3 billion at December 31, 2001 and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2000. In October 2000, we announced that we would terminate our institutional fixed income activities which constituted the major portion of the debt capital markets operations of Prudential Securities Group. As indicated above, our termination of institutional fixed income activities resulted in a reduced level of asset based financing at Prudential Securities Group and on a consolidated basis. At December 31, 2001, Prudential Securities Group had remaining assets amounting to approximately $1.7 billion related to its institutional fixed income activities, as compared to $2.0 billion at December 31, 2000 and $17 billion at December 31, 1999. Substantially all of these assets were financed by means of asset based borrowings. Prudential Securities Group finances its balance sheet through asset backed financing, including repurchase transactions, securities lending arrangements and free credit balances in customers accounts, as well as internal short term and long term borrowings from Prudential Funding, uncommitted lines of credit from banks and other financial institutions and the asset backed commercial paper market. 133 Hedge Portfolios, Commercial Mortgage Securitization and Proprietary Investments and Syndications Operations Liquidity Our Asset Management division includes our hedge portfolios, the commercial mortgage securitization operation and proprietary investments and syndications. The hedge portfolios are financed through securities repurchase agreements and other securities financing activity and to a lesser extent unsecured borrowing. The underlying securities are government securities or corporate bonds and are generally liquid. The commercial mortgage securitization operation is financed by loans from Prudential Funding and by pledging assets to a third party asset backed commercial paper conduit. We generally finance the mortgages until a portfolio accumulates that is large enough to securitize and sell, which currently takes approximately 180 to 270 days, a period that we expect will shorten when we have a more fully developed process for accumulating mortgages. The commercial mortgage securitization operations portfolio is less liquid than publicly traded securities. To mitigate those risks in this portfolio we use an alternative asset backed commercial paper conduit and maintain a higher proportion of long term financing to support these activities. In addition, we acquire public and private debt and equity investments, including controlling interests, of domestic and international companies, with the intention of selling them to institutional investors, including Prudentials general account. We acquire the investments with equity or short or long term debt depending on the liquidity and anticipated time for selling the investment. Non Insurance Contractual Obligations The following table presents our contractual cash flow commitments on short term and long term debt, equity security units and operating leases. See Notes 11, 12 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our short term and long term debt, equity security units and operating leases. This table does not reflect our obligations under our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products contracts. Payment Due by Period Less than 1 3 4 5 After 5 Total 1 Year Years Years Years (in millions) Short term and long term debt $10,709 $5,405 $1,123 $ 133 $4,048 Equity security units........ 690 690 Operating leases............. 1,915 311 480 363 761 Total........................ $13,314 $5,716 $1,603 $1,186 $4,809 During the normal course of our business, we utilize financial instruments with off balance sheet credit risk such as commitments, financial guarantees and letters of credit. Commitments include commitments to purchase and sell mortgage loans, the underfunded portion of commitments to fund investments in private placement securities and unused credit card and home equity lines. In connection with our consumer banking business, loan commitments for credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other lines of credit include agreements to lend up to specified limits to customers. It is anticipated that commitment amounts will only be partially drawn down based on overall customer usage patterns and, therefore, do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We evaluate each credit decision on such commitments at least annually and have the ability to cancel or suspend such lines at our option. The total available lines of credit card, home equity and other commitments were $1.415 billion, of which $569 million remains available at December 31, 2001. Other commitments primarily include commitments to purchase and sell mortgage loans and the unfunded portion of commitments to fund investments in private placement securities. These mortgage loans and private placement commitments were $2.029 billion, of which $1.083 billion remain available at December 31, 2001. We also provide financial guarantees incidental to other transactions and letters of credit that guarantee the performance of customers to third parties. These credit related financial instruments have off balance sheet credit risk because only their origination fees, if any, and accruals for probable losses, if any, are recognized until the obligation under the instrument is fulfilled or expires. These instruments can extend for several years and expirations are not concentrated in any period. We seek to control credit risk associated with these instruments by limiting credit, maintaining collateral where customary and appropriate and performing other monitoring procedures. At December 31, 2001, financial guarantees and letters of credit issued were $341 million. 134 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We utilize special purpose entities ("SPEs") for several business purposes. Our principal use of SPEs has been in connection with our existing commercial mortgage securitization business. The institutional fixed income business of Prudential Securities, which we exited in 2000, also conducted securitization activities. In those securitizations, mortgage loans or other receivables are sold to an SPE that issues debt and residual interests backed by the cash flows of the SPEs assets. In many of these transactions, we have no further continuing involvement in the assets or activities of the SPE except for retained servicing. In others, we may retain subordinated debt or a non controlling portion of the equity of the SPE or may provide asset management services to the SPE. Our position as asset manager is controlled by third party investors in the SPE, who have the ability to terminate our services. We have also used SPEs in connection with the sale of investments, primarily real estate. In these transactions, at the time of sale, the investment is transferred to the SPE and is no longer included on our balance sheet. In other instances in which we utilize SPEs, such as structured financings and acquisitions, the SPEs are fully consolidated in our financial statements. We do not have any transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our liquidity or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to assets. We enter into over the counter market transactions primarily for the purpose of hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risk. In addition, we may take positions in foreign currencies, precious and base metals. These activities are executed in highly liquid markets, and the fair values generated internally are compared to third party valuations, usually on a daily basis, during the lives of the contracts. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the production of new insurance and annuity business. These costs include commissions, costs to issue and underwrite the policies and certain variable field office expenses. The capitalized amounts are known as deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. Our total DAC, including the impact of unrealized investment gains and losses, amounted to $6.868 billion at December 31, 2001, and $7.063 billion at December 31, 2000. Approximately 46% of our total DAC at December 31, 2001 relates to our Individual Life Insurance segment, and approximately 19% relates to our Closed Block Business. If we were to experience a significant increase in lapse or surrender rates on policies for which we amortize DAC based on estimated gross margins or gross profits, such as participating and variable life insurance, we would expect acceleration of the write off of DAC for the affected blocks of policies. Additionally, for all policies on which we have outstanding DAC, we would be required to evaluate whether this experience called into question our ability to recover all or a portion of the DAC, and we would be required to write off some or all of the DAC if we concluded that we could not recover it. While an accelerated write off of DAC would not affect our cash flow or liquidity, it would negatively affect our reported earnings and level of capital under generally accepted accounting principles. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 135 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of our core business. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate market risks. The market risks incurred and our strategies for managing these risks vary by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, consumer banking products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset management fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to death benefits under these contracts. We do not believe that these risks add significantly to our overall market risk. We manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk adjusted equity market benchmarks. We measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, "other than trading" activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and "trading" activities conducted primarily in our securities operations. As part of our management of both "other than trading" and "trading" market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk ("VaR") measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for "other than trading" activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance, Annuities and Guaranteed Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Board of Directors. 136 We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling "duration mismatch" of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. As of December 31, 2001, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our "other than trading" assets that subject us to interest rate risk include fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 64% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2001 and 63% as of December 31, 2000. With respect to "other than trading" liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and investment type contracts and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for "other than trading" financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. The following tables set forth the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift at December 31, 2001 and 2000, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. December 31, 2001 Hypothetical Fair Notional Estimated Value After + 100 Hypothetical Value of Fair Basis Point Parallel Change in Derivatives Value Yield Curve Shift Fair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities: Available for sale......................... $109,942 $103,620 $(6,322) Held to maturity........................... 395 374 (21) Commercial loans............................. 20,106 18,990 (1,116) Mortgage securitization inventory............ 1,188 1,180 (8) Policy loans................................. 9,562 8,982 (580) Derivatives: Swaps...................................... $10,724 55 191 136 Futures.................................... 2,877 6 62 56 Options.................................... 338 3 (1) (4) Forwards................................... 9,735 84 84 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt.............. (10,881) (10,448) 433 Investment contracts....................... (35,911) (35,345) 566 Total estimated potential loss................ $(6,860) 137 December 31, 2000 Hypothetical Fair Notional Estimated Value After + 100 Hypothetical Value of Fair Basis Point Parallel Change in Derivatives Value Yield Curve Shift Fair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities: Available for sale......................... $ 83,827 $ 79,312 $(4,515) Held to maturity........................... 12,615 12,085 (530) Commercial loans............................. 15,308 14,634 (674) Mortgage securitization inventory............ 1,448 1,373 (75) Policy loans................................. 8,659 8,147 (512) Derivatives: Swaps...................................... $4,765 4 125 121 Futures.................................... 3,878 34 15 (19) Forwards................................... 3,247 (50) (50) Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt.............. (13,800) (13,683) 117 Investment contracts....................... (25,359) (25,122) 237 Securities sold but not yet purchased...... (157) (141) 16 Total estimated potential loss................ $(5,834) The tables above do not include approximately $95 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities at December 31, 2001 and $77 billion at December 31, 2000. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. Substantially all of the $1.026 billion increase in the total estimated potential loss at December 31, 2001 from December 31, 2000 resulted from our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contract holders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk at December 31, 2001 was $227 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $2.272 billion to $2.045 billion. Of our $227 million estimated equity price risk at December 31, 2001, approximately $90 million relates to Gibraltar Life. Our estimated equity price risk using this methodology at December 31, 2000 was $232 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $2.317 billion to $2.085 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our general account and through our operations in foreign countries. In our international life insurance business, we generally invest in assets denominated in the same currencies as our insurance liabilities, which mitigates our foreign currency exchange rate risk for these operations. 138 Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations arises primarily from purchased investments that are denominated or payable in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all foreign currency denominated fixed income investments supporting our U.S. operations into U.S. dollars, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps, in order to mitigate the risk that the fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our equity investments in unaffiliated foreign entities. Our operations in foreign countries create two additional sources of foreign currency risk. First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign branches and subsidiaries in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency flows based on our overall risk management strategy and loss limits. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations in Japan, of which our Japanese insurance operations are the most significant, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign branches and subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. We have chosen to partially hedge this exposure. We actively manage foreign currency exchange rate risk within specified limits at the consolidated level using Value at Risk analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pretax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. We calculate this using a variance/covariance approach. We calculate Value at Risk estimates of exposure to loss from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates for one month time periods. Our estimated VaR at December 31, 2001 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $9 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $495 million to $486 million. Our estimated VaR at December 31, 2000 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $18 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $906 million to $888 million. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. Our estimated VaR for foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $45 million at December 31, 2001 and $11 million at December 31, 2000. Our average monthly Value at Risk for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured at the 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $13 million during 2001 and $16 million during 2000. Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our derivative positions as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, derivatives are used in our securities operations for trading purposes. 139 Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our securities businesses. We maintain trading inventories in various equity and fixed income securities, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading inventories through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Most of our derivative transactions involve exchange listed contracts and are short term in duration. We act both as a broker, by selling exchange listed contracts, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. We regularly test our VaR model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the VaR model with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon. The VaR for our trading activities expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at the 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon was $5 million at December 31, 2001 and $6 million at December 31, 2000. The average daily VaR for our trading activities, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $6 million during 2001 and $9 million during 2000. The following table sets forth a breakdown of this VaR by risk component as follows: As of Average As of Average December 31, for December 31, for 2001 2001 2000 2000 (in millions) Interest rate risk $ 5 $5 $4 $6 Equity risk....... 1 2 3 Total(1)....... $ 5 $6 $6 $9 (1)At December 31, 2001 and 2000, and during the years then ended, VaR from each of foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity risk in our trading activities was immaterial. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models represent a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, you should not view VaR models as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. We use these models together with other risk management tools, including stress testing. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 140 
 
