ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward Looking Statements included on the Table of Contents, Selected Financial Data and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The consolidated financial statements of Prudential Insurance for periods prior to the demutualization in December 2001 became the historical Consolidated Financial Statements of Prudential Financial. Overview Demutualization and Related Transactions On the date of demutualization, Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. On that date, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential Financials Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance. Also on the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of its Common Stock and completed the sale, through a private placement, of its Class B Stock, a separate class of common stock. The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business, which are discussed below. Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business Financial Services Businesses We refer to the businesses in our three operating divisions and our Corporate and Other operations, collectively, as our Financial Services Businesses. The Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Annuities and Group Insurance segments. The Investment division consists of our Investment Management, Financial Advisory, Retirement, and Other Asset Management segments. The International Insurance and Investments division consists of our International Insurance and International Investments segments. We also have Corporate and Other operations, which includes our real estate and relocation services business, as well as corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that have been or will be divested and businesses that we have placed in wind down status. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of equity that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. We seek growth internally and through acquisition, joint ventures or other forms of business combination or investment. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. Closed Block Business In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our individual in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the Closed Block, as required by the Plan of Reorganization. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of policies included in the 44 Table of Contents Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. We selected the amount and type of Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities included in the Closed Block so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, policyholders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the policies included within the Closed Block. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. Also concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes (the IHC debt). The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets held outside the Closed Block that Prudential Insurance needs to hold to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities and certain other related assets and liabilities. For periods prior to demutualization, the results of the Closed Block Business are those of our former Traditional Participating Products segment. Upon the establishment of the Closed Block Business, we transferred $5.6 billion of net assets previously associated with the former Traditional Participating Products segment, which were in excess of the amounts necessary to support the Closed Block Business, to the Financial Services Businesses. Consequently, income from continuing operations before income taxes of the Closed Block Business includes returns on these net assets for periods prior to the demutualization. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis; our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products; our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; 45 Table of Contents our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; our returns on invested assets, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; our ability to earn commissions and fees from the distribution and servicing of mutual funds, annuities, defined contribution and other investment products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the expense of providing such services; the performance of our investment in Wachovia Securities; the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; and our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation. In addition, factors such as regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange rates, securities market conditions and general economic conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. Executive Summary Prudential Financial is one of the largest financial services firms in the U.S., offering clients a wide array of financial products and services, including individual life insurance, annuities, group life and disability insurance and pension and retirement services. We also offer mutual funds, asset management, real estate and relocation services and, through our investment in Wachovia Securities, securities brokerage services. We serve individual and institutional customers in over 30 countries through a variety of channels, including one of the largest proprietary distribution forces in the life insurance industry. The significant developments and events in 2003 reflected our efforts to effectively redeploy capital to seek enhanced returns. These developments included: The acquisition of American Skandia, completed May 1, 2003, for a total purchase price of $1.184 billion, the results of which are included in our Individual Life and Annuities segment. The combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia, forming a joint venture, Wachovia Securities, in which we retained a 38% ownership interest. The sale of our property and casualty insurance business. The repurchase of 29.1 million shares of Common Stock during the year, at a total cost of $1.0 billion. A 25% increase in our Common Stock dividend, to 50 cents per share. It is our intention to continue strategies to redeploy capital to enhance returns in 2004, with specific focus on the following: Completion of the previously announced acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business, expected to close in the first half of 2004. Integration of Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd., a Korean asset management firm of which we acquired 80% in early 2004. Continuation of our share repurchase program. In early 2004, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to purchase up to $1.5 billion of outstanding Common Stock in 2004. 46 Table of Contents Our Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, which consist of our Insurance, Investment, and International Insurance and Investments divisions as well as our Corporate and Other operations. Our Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of our Closed Block Business, which includes our in force participating life insurance and annuity policies and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We analyze performance of the segments of the Financial Services Business using a non GAAP measure called adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations for a definition of adjusted operating income and a discussion of its use as a measure of operating performance. Shown below are the segments providing the largest contribution to our adjusted operating income in 2003, their comparable contributions in prior years, the adjusted operating income of our remaining segments and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments to income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses: International Insurance $ 819 $ 757 $ 611 Individual Life and Annuities 619 390 389 Retirement 192 141 110 Group Insurance 169 155 70 Investment Management 162 139 141 Financial Advisory (111 ) (43 ) (140 ) Remaining segments and Corporate and Other 122 199 (14 ) Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment losses, net, and related charges and adjustments (199 ) (866 ) (139 ) Divested businesses, sales practices remedies and costs and demutualization costs and expenses (185 ) (35 ) (530 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes for Financial Services Businesses 1,588 837 498 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 370 (757 ) (619 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 1,958 $ 80 $ (121 ) Results for 2003 presented above reflect the following: Continued strong performance of our international insurance operations, including pretax adjusted operating income of $370 million from our Gibraltar Life operations, and pretax adjusted operating income of $449 million from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life. Significantly improved results of our Individual Life and Annuities segment reflecting improved results of our annuities operations, including $167 million in pretax adjusted operating income in 2003 from the American Skandia operations acquired during the year. Improved results of our Retirement, Group Insurance and Investment Management segments as we benefited from improved market conditions, lower expenses and improved benefits experience. A loss, on a pretax adjusted operating income basis, of $111 million from our Financial Advisory segment. Included in the loss are transition costs of $100 million incurred related to the transaction and costs of $107 million related to obligations we retained in connection with the businesses contributed to Wachovia Securities, primarily retained litigation and regulatory matters. Our share of earnings from our investment in Wachovia Securities, before transition costs, was $88 million, commencing with the formation of the combined company on July 1, 2003. Income within Corporate and Other reflects a lower level of income from our own qualified pension plan, offset in part by a lower level of expenses in 2003. Realized investment losses, net, and related charges and adjustments for the Financial Services Businesses in 2003 included impairments and credit related losses of $404 million, down from $1,055 million in 2002. 47 Table of Contents Included in the divested businesses results are a pretax loss of $491 million related to the disposition of our property and casualty insurance operations, as well as pretax income from our receipt of $332 million in connection with a favorable settlement related to a former business of Prudential Securities. Results of the Closed Block Business for 2003 include realized investment gains of $426 million, as compared to realized investment losses of $587 million in the prior year. We manage our capital levels consistent with our risk, rating objectives and regulatory requirements. Our ratings targets are AA/Aa/AA for Standard & Poors Ratings Group (S&P), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Fitch Ratings Ltd. (Fitch), respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best) for our core domestic life insurance companies. Our debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are A for S&P, Moodys and Fitch and a for A.M. Best. At year end 2003, we had $21 billion of total capital and $2.6 billion of unused borrowing capacity, which we believe are sufficient to capitalize our existing businesses. Together with anticipated future earnings in 2004, we believe these resources are adequate to cover expected growth in capital requirements, including the acquisition of the CIGNA retirement business, while maintaining balance sheet strength consistent with our ratings objectives. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information. Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Valuation of Investments A large portion of our investments is reflected at fair value in the statements of financial position based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, when such information is not available, for example, with respect to private placement fixed maturity securities which comprise 18% of our investments as of December 31, 2003, fair value is estimated, typically by using a discounted cash flow model, which considers current market credit spreads for publicly traded issues with similar terms by companies of comparable credit quality. Consequently, changes in estimated future cash flows or in our assessment of the issuers credit quality will result in changes in fair value estimates. Fixed maturities and equity securities classified as available for sale are carried at these fair values and the impact of changes in fair value are recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of equity. In addition, fixed maturities and equity securities classified as available for sale or held to maturity are subject to our review to identify when a decline in value is other than temporary. Factors we consider in determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary include: whether the decline is substantial; the duration of the decline, generally greater than six months; the reasons for the decline in value, credit event or interest rate related; our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time that will allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer. When it is determined that a decline in value is other than temporary, the carrying value of the security is reduced to its estimated fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. This corresponding charge is referred to as an impairment and is reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net in the statements of operations. The level of impairment losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. Commercial loans, which comprise 11% of our investments as of December 31, 2003, are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses. This allowance includes a loan specific portion as well as a portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses. The loan specific portion is based on managements judgment as to ultimate collectibility of loan principal. The portfolio reserve is based on a number of factors, such as historical experience and portfolio diversification. Similar to impairment losses discussed above, the allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments for a discussion of our investment portfolio and related results, including policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value. 48 Table of Contents Policyholder Liabilities The liability for Future policy benefits is the largest liability included in our statements of financial position, 32% of total liabilities as of December 31, 2003. Changes in this liability are generally reflected in the Policyholders benefits caption in our statements of operations. This liability is primarily comprised of the present value of estimated future payments to holders of life insurance and annuity products where the timing and amount of payment depends on policyholder mortality, surrender or retirement experience. For traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, the mortality and interest rate assumptions we apply are those used to calculate the policies guaranteed cash surrender values. For life insurance and annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses, expected mortality is generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables. Interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality and interest rate assumptions are locked in upon the issuance of new insurance or annuity business with fixed and guaranteed terms, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Our liability for Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses, which is less than 1% of total liabilities as of December 31, 2003, includes estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported (IBNR) as of the balance sheet date, primarily attributable to our Group Insurance segment. Consistent with industry accounting practice, we do not establish loss reserves until a loss has occurred. These IBNR estimates, and estimates of the amounts of loss we will ultimately incur on reported claims, which are based in part on our historical experience, are regularly adjusted to reflect actual claims experience. When actual experience differs from our previous estimate, the resulting difference will be included in our reported results for the period of the change in estimate in the Policyholders benefits caption in our statements of operations. On an ongoing basis, trends in actual experience are a significant factor in the determination of claim reserve levels. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs For most life insurance and annuity products that we sell, we defer costs that vary with and are related primarily to the production of new business to the extent these costs are deemed recoverable from future profits, and we record these costs as an asset known as Deferred policy acquisition costs or DAC, which is 2% of total assets as of December 31, 2003. We amortize this DAC asset over the expected lives of the contracts, based on the level and timing of either estimated profits or premiums, depending on the type of contract. For products with amortization based on estimated profits, the amortization rate is periodically updated to reflect current period experience or changes in assumptions that affect future profitability, such as lapse rates, investment returns, mortality experience, expense margins and surrender charges. However, for products with amortization based on future premiums, the amortization rate is locked in when the product is sold. Expected profitability is a significant element in evaluating deferred policy acquisition costs related to annuity products. Deferred policy acquisition costs related to annuity products are evaluated quarterly by comparing our actual profitability to our expectations. Expected profitability considers, among other assumptions, our estimate of future asset returns that determine the future fees we will earn, the costs we expect to incur associated with minimum death benefit and other contractual guarantees, as well as other profitability factors. If actual asset returns do not differ significantly from our expectations, they do not result in a change in the rate of amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Where actual asset returns differ significantly from expectations, future asset return assumptions are evaluated using a reversion to mean approach. Under the reversion to mean approach, we consider historical returns over a period of time and project returns for a future four year period so that the investments underlying the annuities grow at a targeted return for the entire period. A calculated rate of return over the four future years, which we refer to as the look forward period, is determined so that this calculated rate, together with the actual rate of return for the historical period, produces the targeted return for the entire period. If the calculated rate of return is consistent with our range of expectations in light of market conditions, we use it to project the asset growth for the next four years. If the calculated rate of return is not supported by our current expectations, we adjust the rate of return for purposes of these computations. For contract years after the look forward period, we project asset growth using our long term rate, currently an 8% annual blended rate of return, which reflects an assumed rate of return of 8.85% for equity type assets. Beginning in the second quarter of 2002 and continuing throughout 2002, we utilized a rate of return lower than the calculated return, which contributed to our additional amortization of deferred acquisition costs during the second and third quarters of 2002. The equity rate of return used in the immediate four year look forward period varies by product, but was under 10% for all of our variable annuity products for our evaluation of deferred policy acquisition costs as of December 31, 2003. For the average remaining life of our variable annuity contracts in force as of December 31, 2003, our evaluation of deferred policy acquisition costs is based on a 7.7% annual blended rate of return that reflects an 49 Table of Contents assumed rate of return of 8.9% for equity type assets. Deterioration in market conditions may result in increases in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, while further improvement in market conditions may result in a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. These changes in DAC balances are included as a component of General and administrative expenses in our statements of operations. See Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities for discussion of the impact of DAC amortization on our results of our annuities businesses, including a reduction in amortization recorded in 2003 reflecting an increase in our estimate of future gross profits on variable annuities and increases in amortization recorded in 2002 and 2001 reflecting our decreases in estimates of future gross profits during those years. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Impairment testing requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, and record an impairment charge if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The determination of a reporting units fair value is based on managements best estimate, which generally considers the units expected future earnings and market based earning multiples of peer companies. As of December 31, 2003, we have $435 million of goodwill reflected on our statement of financial position. Reserves For Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Other Significant Estimates In addition to the items discussed above, the application of GAAP requires management to make other estimates and assumptions. For example, accounting for pension and other postretirement and postemployment benefits requires estimates of future returns on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. See Corporate and Other Operations for a discussion of our pension assumptions and related returns. Another example is the recognition of deferred tax assets, which depends on managements assumption that future earnings will be sufficient to realize the deferred benefit. This is discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting Policies Adopted Accounting for Stock Options Employee stock options issued during 2001 and 2002 are accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, Accounting to Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations, an allowable alternative method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Under APB No. 25, we did not recognize any stock based compensation expense for employee stock options as all employee stock options had an exercise price equal to the market value of our Common Stock at the date of grant. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our accounting for employee stock options to adopt the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended, prospectively for all new awards granted to employees on or after January 1, 2003. Under these provisions, the fair value of all employee stock options awarded on or after January 1, 2003, is included in the determination of net income, but not for options awarded prior thereto. Accordingly, the amount we include in the determination of net income is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since inception of the employee stock option plan. The fair value of employee stock options issued prior to January 1, 2003 was estimated using a Black Scholes option pricing model. For options issued on or after January 1, 2003, the fair value of each option was estimated using a binomial option pricing model. Both option pricing models consider the following assumptions in estimating fair value: dividend yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate, and expected life of the option. If we had accounted for all employee stock options under the fair value based accounting method, net income of the 50 Table of Contents Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2003, would have been reduced by $35 million or, $.06 and $.07 per share of Common Stock on a basic and diluted basis, respectively. The net income of the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2003, would have been reduced by $1 million with no change in earnings per share of the Class B Stock. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net income would have been reduced by $30 million or $.05 per share of Common Stock on a basic and diluted basis. For the period December 18, 2001 through December 31, 2001, net income and basic and diluted earnings per share of Common Stock would have been reduced by $1 million and $.01, respectively. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including the adoption of Statement of Position 03 01, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 01), effective January 1, 2004. Consolidated Results of Operations Net Income and Other Data The following table summarizes income from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as well as other components comprising net income. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Financial Services Businesses by segment: Individual Life and Annuities $ 565 $ 243 $ 293 Group Insurance 117 26 (2 ) Total Insurance Division 682 269 291 Investment Management 167 203 133 Financial Advisory (111 ) (43 ) (140 ) Retirement 196 (235 ) 24 Other Asset Management 46 45 55 Total Investment Division 298 (30 ) 72 International Insurance 805 569 554 International Investments (69 ) (6 ) (44 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division 736 563 510 Corporate and Other (128 ) 35 (375 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes for Financial Services Businesses 1,588 837 498 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 370 (757 ) (619 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 1,958 80 (121 ) Income taxes (benefit) 650 (189 ) (32 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 1,308 269 (89 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (44 ) (75 ) (65 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,264 $ 194 $ (154 ) In managing our business, we analyze operating performance separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments operating performance using a non GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income. Results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with GAAP. We calculate adjusted operating income for the segments of the Financial Services Businesses by adjusting our income from continuing operations before income taxes to exclude the following items: realized investment gains, net of losses, and related charges and adjustments; the contribution to income/loss of divested businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under GAAP; life insurance sales practices remedies and costs; and demutualization costs and expenses. 51 Table of Contents The contributions to income / loss of wind down businesses that we have not divested remain in adjusted operating income. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes net realized investment gains and losses. A significant element of realized losses is impairments and losses from sales of credit impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles and can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. Adjusted operating income excludes life insurance sales practices remedies and costs relating to the settlement of individual life insurance sales practices issues for the period from 1982 through 1995 because they relate to a substantial and identifiable non recurring event. Adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested business, which are not indicative of our future operating results. Adjusted operating income also excludes demutualization costs and expenses as they are directly related to demutualization and would distort the trends associated with ongoing operations. Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life and Annuities segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues: Individual Life $ 1,936 $ 1,952 $ 1,907 Individual Annuities 1,146 744 801 3,082 2,696 2,708 Benefits and expenses: Individual Life 1,579 1,520 1,625 Individual Annuities 884 786 694 2,463 2,306 2,319 Adjusted operating income: Individual Life 357 432 282 Individual Annuities 262 (42 ) 107 619 390 389 Realized investment losses, net, and related adjustments(1) (41 ) (162 ) (108 ) Related charges(2) (13 ) 15 12 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 565 $ 243 $ 293 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and deferred policy acquisition cost amortization. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. 52 Table of Contents On May 1, 2003, we completed our acquisition of Skandia U.S. Inc., which included American Skandia for a total purchase price of $1.184 billion. Beginning May 1, 2003, the results of American Skandia have been included in our consolidated results and are included as a component of our annuity business discussed below. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this acquisition and purchase price allocation. Adjusted Operating Income 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The decrease in adjusted operating income for the segments individual life insurance business is primarily the result of claims experience, net of reinsurance, less favorable than in the prior year, partially offset by the favorable impact of increases in the market value of variable life insurance assets. Results of the segments individual annuity business for 2003 included adjusted operating income of $167 million from the initial eight months of operations of American Skandia, which consisted of revenues of $416 million and total benefits and expenses of $249 million. American Skandias revenues consisted primarily of policy charges and fee income of $242 million and asset management and service fees of $126 million. Benefits and expenses consisted primarily of general and administrative expenses of $200 million, including $38 million of amortization of the value of business acquired asset (VOBA) established in purchase accounting, which amounted to $440 million as of the date of acquisition, and guaranteed minimum death benefit payments of $35 million. Adjusted operating income of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $137 million, from a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $42 million in 2002 to income of $95 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income for 2003 included a $39 million reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs due to our increased estimate of future gross profits on variable annuities reflecting market value increases in underlying assets. This benefit to adjusted operating income was largely offset by a $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities. Results for 2002 included charges totaling $137 million for additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, reflecting our lower estimates of future gross profits resulting from greater expected costs from minimum death benefit guarantees and lower expected fees under individual annuity contracts due to declines in asset values. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Results for the segments individual life insurance business for 2002 benefited from a decline in operating expenses, reflecting savings that we continue to realize from our field management and agency restructuring program implemented in 2001, for which that years expenses included $90 million of implementation costs. Additionally, results of our individual life insurance business for 2002 benefited from increased investment income, primarily from an increase in the level of invested assets. However, these items were partially offset by less favorable mortality experience in 2002, as well as a $47 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, primarily due to a market decline and related policy lapses associated with declines in variable life insurance account values. Results for 2001 included $25 million of net losses from insurance claims arising out of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the U.S. Results of our annuity business in 2002 included charges totaling $137 million for additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs discussed above. Results for 2001 included similar charges for additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs totaling $30 million. A decline in fee revenues in 2002 from our variable annuity products due to a decrease in average account values was partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses resulting from our expense management efforts. Revenues 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life insurance business reported revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, of $1.936 billion in 2003 compared to $1.952 billion 2002, a $16 million decrease. Premiums decreased $43 million, from $395 million in 2002 to $352 million in 2003, reflecting approximately $80 million in decreased premiums on term insurance we issued under policy provisions to customers who previously had lapsing variable life insurance policies with us, partially offset by increased sales and growth of our in force block of term insurance products. Revenues from the segments individual annuity business increased $402 million, from $744 million in 2002 to $1.146 billion in 2003, which included revenues of $416 million from American Skandia. Revenues of the segments existing individual annuity business declined $14 million, from $744 million in 2002 to $730 million in 2003, due primarily to an $18 million decrease in policy charges and fees as, despite a year to year increase, the average market value of variable annuity customer accounts declined in 2003 from 2002. 53 Table of Contents 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life insurance business reported revenues of $1.952 billion in 2002, compared to $1.907 billion in 2001, a $45 million increase. Net investment income increased $28 million from $391 million in 2001 to $419 million in 2002, primarily from an increase in the level of invested assets. Commissions and other income increased $12 million, from $112 million in 2001 to $124 million in 2002, primarily due to an increased level of reinsurance activity. Premiums amounted to $395 million in 2002, essentially unchanged from the prior year. Revenues from our individual annuity business declined $57 million, from $801 million in 2001 to $744 million in 2002. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees decreased $48 million from $315 million in 2001 to $267 million in 2002, driven primarily from our variable annuity products, reflecting a decline in the average market value of customer accounts on which our fees are based. Net investment income declined $22 million, from $440 million in 2001 to $418 million in 2002, primarily due to lower yields on our investment portfolio. These declines were partially offset by higher premiums resulting from increased sales of our immediate income annuity product. Benefits and Expenses 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, of the segments individual life insurance business increased $59 million from $1.520 billion in 2002 to $1.579 billion in 2003. The increase reflects a $97 million increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, from $676 million in 2002 to $773 million in 2003, as well as an increase in employee termination and related costs. The increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves came primarily from claims experience, net of reinsurance, less favorable than the prior year, partially offset by decreased policy reserves on term insurance, corresponding to the decreased premiums discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, due primarily to less favorable claims experience and lower policy surrenders. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual annuity business increased $98 million, from $786 million in 2002 to $884 million in 2003, which included $249 million of expenses related to American Skandia. Benefits and expenses of the segments existing individual annuity business decreased $151 million, from $786 million in 2002 to $635 million in 2003. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs declined $178 million from 2002 to 2003, primarily as a result of the changes in our estimated future gross profits as discussed above. Partially offsetting this was a $28 million increase in policyholder benefits and related change in reserves, reflecting the $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities discussed above, which resulted from refinements in our calculation of these reserves. Benefits and expenses of our individual annuity business include $69 million of guaranteed minimum death benefits in 2003 of which $35 million is associated with the American Skandia business. Effective January 1, 2004, we adopted SOP 03 01, which requires the recognition of a liability for a guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB) feature, as well as a change in the valuation and presentation of our liability associated with a market value adjustment (MVA) feature, both of which are contained in certain of our annuity contracts. We estimate the effect of adopting SOP 03 01 resulting from our annuities business will be a net charge of approximately $26 million after taxes. This charge will be recorded as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. The net impact of recognition of a liability for GMDB provisions associated with the American Skandia business and the change in the liability for the MVA feature associated with the American Skandia business will be largely offset by a net decrease in VOBA of approximately $130 million, since the expected cash flows on American Skandias business in force at the time of the acquisition that correspond to the obligations covered by SOP 03 01 were considered in establishing the initial VOBA. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses of our individual life insurance business decreased $105 million, or 6%, from $1.625 billion in 2001 to $1.520 billion in 2002. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $150 million, from $557 million in 2001 to $407 million in 2002, reflecting savings from our program to restructure our field management and agency structure, for which expenses in 2001 included $90 million of implementation costs. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves decreased $12 million, from $688 million in 2001 to $676 million in 2002, as the impact of claims arising from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S. on 2001 benefits and expenses was partially offset by less favorable mortality experience in 2002 than that of 2001, other than the impact of those claims. A $47 million increase in amortization of deferred acquisition costs, primarily due to the market impact of declines in variable life insurance account values, was a partial offset to the aforementioned decreases in benefits and expenses. The segments individual annuity business reported benefits and expenses of $786 million in 2002, compared to $694 million in 2001, an increase of $92 million, or 13%. The increase reflects an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of $87 million, which primarily includes charges for additional amortization of $137 million in 54 Table of Contents 2002 and $30 million in 2001 resulting from decreases in expected future gross profits on our annuity products as discussed above. Guaranteed minimum death benefit payments increased $23 million, from $14 million in 2001 to $37 million in 2002. Sales Results and Account Values The following table sets forth the individual life insurance businesss sales, as measured by scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash received basis and changes in account value for the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. Sales of the individual life insurance business do not correspond to revenues under GAAP. They are, however, a relevant measure of business activity. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze new sales based on the measure described above, as this measures the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, as well as current sales. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Life insurance sales(1): Excluding corporate owned life insurance: Variable life $ 99 $ 145 $ 208 Universal life 132 86 21 Term life 110 89 46 Total excluding corporate owned life insurance 341 320 275 Corporate owned life insurance 21 122 199 Total $ 362 $ 442 $ 474 Life Insurance sales by distribution channel(1)(2): Prudential Agents $ 230 $ 238 $ 213 Third party 111 82 62 Total $ 341 $ 320 $ 275 Variable Annuities(3): Beginning total account value $ 15,338 $ 18,689 $ 21,059 Sales 4,418 1,395 1,271 Surrenders and withdrawals (3,939 ) (2,267 ) (2,356 ) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(4) 5,701 (2,479 ) (1,285 ) Acquisition of American Skandia 22,431 Ending total account value $ 43,949 $ 15,338 $ 18,689 Net sales (redemptions) $ 479 $ (872 ) $ (1,085 ) Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value $ 3,396 $ 2,975 $ 2,926 Sales 247 605 120 Surrenders and withdrawals (200 ) (184 ) (216 ) Interest credited and other activity(4) 71 145 Ending total account value $ 3,514 $ 3,396 $ 2,975 Net sales (redemptions) $ 47 $ 421 $ (96 ) (1) Scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash received basis. (2) Excluding corporate owned life insurance. (3) Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments through defined contribution plan products are included with such products. (4) Includes maintenance and insurance charges assessed, net bonus payments credited to contract holder accounts, annuity benefits and other adjustments, as well as decreases in policyholder account balances during 2002 of $45 million for variable annuities and $56 million for fixed annuities due to the distribution of policy credits, subsequently paid out in cash, as demutualization consideration in connection with the Companys demutualization. 2001 includes increases to policyholder account values as a result of the issuance of policy credits of $429 million for variable annuities and $157 million for fixed annuities. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, increased $21 million from 2002 to 2003. Sales of our universal life and term life 55 Table of Contents products, both of which were updated as to features and pricing in 2003, increased $46 million and $21 million, respectively. These increases were offset by a decline of $46 million in variable life sales, which were negatively affected by customer response to prolonged volatile equity market conditions. Sales of corporate owned life insurance, substantially all of which is sold by the third party distribution channel, declined by $101 million. The decline primarily resulted from a single large sale in 2002. Sales from Prudential Agents decreased slightly from 2002 to 2003, reflecting a decline in the average number of agents for the period from approximately 4,500 in 2002 to approximately 4,300 in 2003 associated with selective hiring of new agents and closures of several offices to promote the cost effectiveness of the Prudential Agent distribution channel as well as some attrition of agents resulting from the Companys sale of its property and casualty insurance businesses in 2003. Sales by the third party distribution channel, other than corporate owned life insurance, increased $29 million 2002 to 2003, reflecting increased universal and term life sales through this channel. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $47.5 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $28.7 billion, which included $22.4 billion from the May 1, 2003 acquisition of American Skandia. The remainder of the increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities as well as net sales of $526 million. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $3.0 billion, from $1.4 billion for 2002 to $4.4 billion for 2003, primarily due to $2.5 billion in variable annuity sales contributed by American Skandia from the date of acquisition. Excluding American Skandia, variable annuity gross sales increased by $528 million driven by improving market conditions, product enhancements, and continued expansion in third party distribution. Sales of fixed annuities declined year over year by $358 million due primarily to managements decision to lower crediting rates in the current interest rate environment. Surrenders and withdrawals increased $1.7 billion in 2003 from 2002, including $2.1 billion from American Skandia, reflecting the larger base of business. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, increased $45 million from 2001 to 2002. Increased sales of our universal life insurance products, which we introduced in late 2001, and our term insurance products, reflecting revised product pricing, more than offset a $63 million decline in variable life sales associated with customer response to equity market conditions. Sales of corporate owned life insurance products, substantially all of which is sold by the third party distribution channel, decreased $77 million, reflecting several large sales in 2001, as compared to a single large sale in 2002. Sales from Prudential Agents increased $25 million from 2001 to 2002, an increase in agent productivity, partially offset by a decline in the average number of agents for the period from approximately 5,200 in 2001 to approximately 4,500 in 2002. The decline in the number of average agents from 2001 reflected actions we took in 2001 to increase the productivity standards required to continue agents contracts. Sales by the third party distribution channel, other than corporate owned life insurance, increased $20 million from 2001 to 2002, reflecting increased universal and term life sales through this channel. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $18.7 billion as of December 31, 2002, a decrease of $2.9 billion from December 31, 2001. This decrease is due primarily to declines in market values of our variable annuities resulting from adverse market conditions as well as net redemptions. Net redemptions for 2002 were $451 million as compared to $1.2 billion in 2001. The $730 million decline in net redemptions is primarily the result of a $609 million increase in gross sales due to product and compensation enhancements as well as strengthening of distribution relationships. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the individual life insurance businesss policy surrender experience for variable life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 653 $ 692 $ 637 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders account balances, and separate account balances 3.8 % 4.2 % 3.8 % 56 Table of Contents 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $39 million from 2002 to 2003. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances decreased from 2002 to 2003, reflecting a higher level of lapses in 2002 associated with declines in variable life insurance account values due to adverse equity market conditions. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $55 million in 2002 from 2001. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances increased from 2001 to 2002, reflecting an increase in lapses associated with declines in variable life insurance account values. Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 3,690 $ 3,586 $ 3,248 Benefits and expenses 3,521 3,431 3,178 Adjusted operating income 169 155 70 Realized investment losses, net, and related adjustments(1) (52 ) (129 ) (72 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 117 $ 26 $ (2 ) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustment. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $14 million from 2002 to 2003. Adjusted operating income for 2003 included a net favorable effect of $8 million from refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features and estimates of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, while the prior year benefited $19 million from refinements in reserves relating to our group long term disability product. Excluding the $11 million net negative impact of these refinements, adjusted operating income increased $25 million in 2003 from 2002, reflecting more favorable group life benefits experience in 2003 and a greater contribution from investment results. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $85 million from 2001 to 2002. Adjusted operating income for 2001 included a charge of approximately $36 million reflecting a refinement in our reserve for group life incurred but not reported claims. Adjusted operating income for 2002 benefited $19 million from refinements in reserves relating to our group long term disability product. Excluding these reserve refinements, adjusted operating income increased $30 million from 2001 due primarily to growth in both group life and disability premiums and a lower benefits ratio on group disability products. Revenues 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $104 million, or 3%, from 2002 to 2003. Group life insurance premiums increased by $81 million, or 4%, to $2.176 billion primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which declined slightly from 95% in 2002 to 93% in 2003. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $56 million, or 10%, to $630 million reflecting the growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which decreased slightly from 87% in 2002 to 85% in 2003. We expect persistency for both group life and disability to decrease from the current levels as a result of the pricing adjustments we implemented in 2002, as discussed below, and a highly competitive market. These increases in premiums were partially offset by a $9 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience 57 Table of Contents rated cases, as discussed above. Policy charges and fee income declined by $42 million primarily as a result of a $17 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above, and lower fees on experience rated contracts sold to employers for funding of employee benefit programs and retirement arrangements. Although net investment income was relatively unchanged in 2003 from 2002, the portion of this income from policyholder loans declined, with a corresponding decline in interest credited to policyholders account balances, which resulted in a greater contribution from investment results to adjusted operating income in 2003, as the remaining base of invested assets increased. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $338 million, or 10%, from 2001 to 2002. Group life insurance premiums increased by $314 million, or 18%, to $2.095 billion primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which decreased slightly from 97% in 2001 to 95% in 2002, as well as a change in coverage for one large client from group universal life to group basic life. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $67 million, or 13%, to $574 million reflecting the growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which decreased slightly from 89% in 2001 to 87% in 2002. The decreases in persistency are primarily a result of the pricing adjustments implemented in 2002, discussed below, and a highly competitive market. Net investment income increased $35 million, or 6%, primarily due to a larger base of invested assets. These increases in revenue were partially offset by an $84 million decrease in policy charges and fee income primarily due to the change, discussed above, in coverage for one large client from group universal life to group basic life. Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Benefits ratio(1): Group life 90.9 % 91.7 % 92.6 % Group disability 92.4 87.9 95.2 Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life 9.7 10.0 10.0 Group disability 22.5 22.0 23.6 (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $90 million from 2002 to 2003. Current year benefits were reduced $34 million as a result of the refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features discussed above, while the prior year benefited $19 million from reduction in benefits due to the refinement in reserves relating to our group long term disability product. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased $105 million. This increase resulted principally from an increase of $94 million in policyholders benefits, including change in policy reserves, reflecting the growth of business in force. Beginning in 2002, we refocused group life and disability on improved risk selection and reduced benefits ratios. We continuously make pricing adjustments, when contractually permitted, which consider the emerging experience on our group insurance products. While there can be no assurance, we expect these actions, as well as pricing discipline in writing new business, will allow us to maintain or improve our benefits ratios. The group life benefits ratio for 2003 improved 0.8 percentage points from 2002 reflecting lower claims incidence. The group disability benefits ratio increased by 4.5 percentage points, of which 3.2 percentage points resulted from the reserve refinement in 2002 discussed above. The remaining 1.3 percentage point increase in the group disability benefits ratio is primarily due to a decrease in net claim resolutions on our long term disability products, partially offset by favorable morbidity experience on our other disability products. The group life and disability administrative operating expense ratios remained relatively unchanged from 2002 to 2003. 58 Table of Contents 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $253 million, or 8%, from 2001 to 2002. The increase resulted in large part from an increase of $213 million, or 9%, in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves. Excluding the reserve refinements noted above, policyholders benefits increased $268 million, or 11%, reflecting the growth of business in force. An increase of $25 million, or 5%, in operating expenses, including amortization of deferred acquisition costs, also contributed to the increase in benefits and expenses. The increase in operating expenses, from $466 million in 2001 to $491 million in 2002, resulted primarily from the growth in business in force and related sales based compensation costs. The group life benefits ratio for 2002 improved 0.9 percentage points from 2001. Absent the negative impact to 2001 from the $36 million reserve refinement, the 2002 group life benefits ratio increased 0.8 percentage points reflecting higher claim incidence, primarily early in the year. The group disability benefits ratio improved by 7.3 percentage points from 2001 to 2002. The benefit from the $19 million reserve refinement recorded in 2002 represented 3.2 percentage points of the improvement. The remainder of the improvement reflects improved case resolution and our ongoing efforts to improve the quality of our underwriting and claims management processes. The group life administrative operating expense ratio remained flat from 2001 to 2002. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2001 to 2002 reflecting the impact of our efforts to improve operational efficiencies. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments new annualized premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income in addition to current sales. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) New annualized premiums(1): Group life $ 225 $ 269 $ 435 Group disability(2) 144 160 139 Total $ 369 $ 429 $ 574 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. (2) Includes long term care products. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums decreased $60 million, or 14%, from 2002 to 2003. Group life sales decreased in 2003 due primarily to a smaller contribution from large case sales in 2003 as well as the expected slowing of our sales due to the implementation of pricing adjustments in 2002. Group disability sales decreased in 2003 due primarily to one large sale in the fourth quarter of 2002. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums decreased $145 million, or 25%, from 2001 to 2002 due to a decrease in group life sales. The group life sales decrease came from a decrease in sales to new customers reflecting a sale of $99 million to one large customer in 2001 and the expected slowing of our sales due to the implementation of pricing adjustments in 2002, partially offset by increased sales to existing customers. Group disability sales increased in 2002 due primarily to one large fourth quarter sale. 59 Table of Contents Investment Division Investment Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Investment Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,259 $ 1,235 $ 1,357 Expenses 1,097 1,096 1,216 Adjusted operating income 162 139 141 Realized investment gains (losses), net(1) 5 64 (8 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 167 $ 203 $ 133 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $23 million, from $139 million in 2002 to $162 million in 2003. The increase reflected lower expenses, excluding the impact of recent acquisitions, and higher asset based fees in our investment management and advisory operations, which were partially offset by a decline in retained fees as a result of the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia. We estimate the decline in retained fees reduced the segments adjusted operating income for the second half of 2003 by $22 million. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for 2002 was essentially unchanged from 2001. Lower fee revenues resulting from declines in market value of the underlying equity assets under management as well as lower average mutual fund customer account balances on which our fees are based, and lower mortgage loan origination and servicing revenue were largely offset by a decrease in expenses resulting from the decline in revenue and cost saving measures implemented in 2001. We incurred $23 million and $55 million of employee termination and facilities consolidation costs in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Revenues The following tables set forth the Investment Management segments revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, by source and assets under management for the periods indicated. In managing our business we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to GAAP assets, because our primary sources of revenues are fees based on assets under management. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Revenues: Retail customers(1) $ 187 $ 184 $ 210 Institutional customers 372 335 383 General account 219 221 227 Sub total 778 740 820 Mutual fund revenues(2) 481 495 537 Total revenues $ 1,259 $ 1,235 $ 1,357 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Represents mutual fund revenues other than asset management fees paid to affiliates, which are included in the appropriate categories above. 60 Table of Contents December 31,2003 December 31,2002 (in billions) Assets Under Management (at fair market value): Investment Management Segment Investment Management & Advisory Services Retail customers(1) $ 81.2 $ 79.9 Institutional customers(2) 94.8 85.2 General account 127.8 122.9 Total Investment Management & Advisory Services $ 303.8 $ 288.0 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds, including investments in our mutual funds through wrap fee products, and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $24 million, from $1.235 billion in 2002 to $1.259 billion in 2003. The increase came primarily from the management of institutional customer assets inclusive of revenues associated with an international real estate asset manager that we acquired at the end of 2002. A decline in mutual fund revenues from lower average account balances on which our fees are based was partially offset by the inclusion of revenues of the mutual fund business of American Skandia, commencing May 1, 2003. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $122 million, from $1.357 billion in 2001 to $1.235 billion in 2002. The decrease came from a decline of $74 million in revenues from management of institutional and retail customer assets as well as a decline of $42 million in our mutual fund revenue. The decrease in revenues from management of institutional and retail customer assets came primarily from declines in market value of the underlying equity assets under management on which our fees are based, as well as lower loan origination and servicing revenue. The decline in mutual fund revenues was the result of lower average market values of customer accounts on which our fees are based. Expenses 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, were essentially unchanged from 2002. Lower employee termination and facility consolidation costs in 2003, and lower asset based and other expenses in our mutual fund operations were offset by the inclusion of expenses associated with the mutual fund business of American Skandia commencing May 1, 2003 and an international real estate asset manager which we acquired at the end of 2002. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Expenses decreased $120 million, from $1.216 billion in 2001 to $1.096 billion in 2002. The decrease primarily reflects decreases in incentive compensation expenses. Additionally, our 2002 results reflect savings associated with cost reduction initiatives implemented in 2001. In 2002 and 2001 our results reflect $23 million and $55 million, respectively, in employee termination and facility consolidation costs. Financial Advisory Operating Results The following table sets forth the Financial Advisory segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,306 $ 2,421 $ 2,712 Expenses 1,417 2,464 2,852 Adjusted operating income(1) $ (111 ) $ (43 ) $ (140 ) (1) Results of this segment are the same on both an adjusted operating income basis and a GAAP basis. 61 Table of Contents On July 1, 2003, we completed the previously announced agreement with Wachovia to combine each companys respective retail securities brokerage and clearing operations forming Wachovia Securities, a joint venture headquartered in Richmond, VA. We have a 38% ownership interest in the joint venture, while Wachovia owns the remaining 62%. The transaction included our securities brokerage operations but did not include our equity sales, trading and research operations. As part of the transaction we retained certain assets and liabilities related to the contributed businesses, including liabilities for certain litigation and regulatory matters. We account for our 38% ownership of the joint venture under the equity method of accounting; periods prior to July 1, 2003, continue to reflect the results of our previously wholly owned securities brokerage operations on a fully consolidated basis. Accordingly Operating Results, as shown above for 2003, reflect our securities brokerage operations on a consolidated basis for 2001, 2002 and the first six months of 2003 and earnings from the joint venture on the equity basis for the remaining six months of 2003. In addition, in the third quarter of 2003 we decided to exit our existing consumer banking business; therefore, the results of our consumer banking operations previously included within the Financial Advisory segment are shown as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The Financial Advisory segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $111 million in 2003. This loss includes a loss of $53 million from our securities brokerage operations prior to combination of these operations with Wachovia on July 1, 2003. The segments loss for 2003 includes our share of earnings from Wachovia Securities, on a pre tax basis and excluding transition costs, of $88 million. Offsetting these results were expenses of $107 million relating primarily to obligations for litigation and regulatory matters we retained in connection with the contributed businesses. Full year results from our securities brokerage operations for 2003 include $100 million of transition costs, of which $32 million represents our share of costs incurred by the venture, as well as a pre tax gain of $22 million recorded on the completion of the combination of the businesses. In addition, results for 2003 include income of $2 million from our equity sales and trading operations that were not contributed to the new entity. In 2002 the segment reported a loss of $43 million. The loss consisted of an $87 million loss from our securities brokerage operations, which were contributed to the joint venture, partially offset by income of $44 million from our equity sales and trading operations. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. The Financial Advisory segment reported losses, of $43 million for 2002 and $140 million for 2001. The $97 million decline in the segments loss came primarily from reduced losses in our securities brokerage operations that were contributed to the joint venture, which reported a loss of $87 million for 2002 as compared to a loss of $180 million for 2001. These operations incurred costs of $38 million in 2002 and $65 million in 2001 to reduce staffing levels, occupancy and other overhead costs. The reduction in the loss reflects lower non interest expenses resulting from these actions, as well as the $27 million decrease in implementation costs, which together more than offset the negative impact of the continued decline in retail client commissions and net interest revenue. Adjusted operating income from our equity sales and trading operations increased $4 million, to $44 million for 2002, due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and a decrease in costs associated with implementing these initiatives, from $15 million in 2001 to $5 million in 2002. Retirement Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retirement segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 2,281 $ 2,375 $ 2,394 Benefits and expenses 2,089 2,234 2,284 Adjusted operating income 192 $ 141 $ 110 Realized investment losses, net, and related adjustments(1) (1 ) (383 ) (100 ) Related charges(2) 5 7 14 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 196 $ (235 ) $ 24 62 Table of Contents (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of net realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and deferred policy acquisition cost amortization. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $51 million, or 36%, in 2003 from 2002. Our guaranteed products business reported adjusted operating income of $193 million in 2003, an increase of $28 million from 2002, reflecting more favorable investment results and lower operating expenses in the current year, partially offset by an $18 million decrease in income from prepayments of investments. As a result of the interest rate and market environment, our results reflect higher than expected income from prepayment activity and favorable market conditions which may not continue at the same pace. The remainder of the increase in adjusted operating income came from the segments full service defined contribution business, which also benefited from more favorable investment results and lower operating expenses in 2003. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $31 million, or 28%, in 2002 from 2001 reflecting an increase in adjusted operating income of $26 million from our guaranteed products business and a $5 million reduction in the loss from our full service defined contribution business. Our guaranteed products business reported adjusted operating income of $165 million in 2002. The increase reflects income in 2002 of $30 million from a single mortgage loan prepayment and the recording of a $29 million charge to recognize increased estimates of policy liabilities in 2001. Absent the impact of these items, adjusted operating income for the guaranteed products business decreased $33 million, or 20%, mostly due to lower investment results in 2002. Revenues 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $94 million, or 4%, from 2002 to 2003. Net investment income decreased $47 million, from $2.090 billion in 2002 to $2.043 billion in 2003, due primarily to an $18 million decrease in income from prepayments of investments and a decline in yields resulting from the reinvestment of assets in a lower interest rate environment. Premiums decreased $48 million on our guaranteed products business primarily as a result of lower single premium annuity and structured settlement product sales. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $19 million from 2001 to 2002. Net investment income decreased $58 million, from $2.148 billion in 2001 to $2.090 billion in 2002, due to a decline in yields on invested assets, partially offset by $30 million of income from a single mortgage loan prepayment in 2002. Policy charges and fee income decreased $9 million from 2002 to 2001 reflecting a decrease associated with our full service defined contribution business. Partially offsetting these lower revenues, were premium increases of $57 million on our guaranteed products business primarily due to increased sales of structured settlement and single sum products and the recording of increased estimates of policy liabilities for return premiums in 2001. Benefits and Expenses 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $145 million, or 6%, from 2002 to 2003. Policyholders benefits, together with the change in policy reserves and interest credited to policyholders, decreased $121 million due to the decrease in premium activity noted above, as well as more favorable investment results in 2003 and lower crediting rates on customer balances. Operating expenses, excluding amortization of deferred acquisition costs and commission expense, decreased $16 million from 2002 to 2003 reflecting cost reduction measures implemented in prior periods. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $50 million, or 2%, from 2001 to 2002. Policyholders benefits, together with the change in policy reserves and interest credited to policyholders, decreased $32 million from 2001 to 2002 reflecting the decline in yields and increased estimates on policy liabilities recorded in 2001 as discussed above. These items were partly offset by the increase in premium activity noted above. Operating expenses, excluding amortization of deferred acquisition costs and commission expense, for our defined contribution business decreased $21 million due primarily to cost reduction measures implemented in prior periods. 63 Table of Contents Sales Results and Account Values The following table shows the changes in the account values and net sales of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net sales are total sales minus withdrawals or withdrawals and benefits, as applicable. Sales and net sales do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Defined Contribution: Beginning total account value $ 22,914 $ 24,640 $ 26,046 Sales 5,179 3,858 3,689 Withdrawals (3,381 ) (3,248 ) (3,422 ) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(1) 3,946 (2,336 ) (1,673 ) Ending total account value $ 28,658 $ 22,914 $ 24,640 Net sales $ 1,798 $ 610 $ 267 Guaranteed Products(2): Beginning total account value $ 39,058 $ 39,825 $ 41,577 Sales 3,256 1,467 2,299 Withdrawals and benefits (4,013 ) (3,590 ) (4,372 ) Change in market value and interest income 3,281 2,166 2,198 Other(3) 373 (810 ) (1,877 ) Ending total account value $ 41,955 $ 39,058 $ 39,825 Net withdrawals $ (757 ) $ (2,123 ) $ (2,073 ) (1) The year ended December 31, 2002 includes increases to account values of $360 million added to customer accounts due to Common Stock received as demutualization consideration and increases to account values of $448 million added to customer accounts from inclusion of amounts not previously reflected in this segment. The year ended December 31, 2001 includes increases to account values of $433 million added to customer accounts due to Common Stock received as demutualization consideration. (2) Prudentials retirement plan accounted for 15%, 32% and 29% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. This sales activity predominantly represents repricing of scheduled maturities. These scheduled maturities are also reflected in withdrawals and therefore have no impact on net sales. Ending total account value includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $9.7 billion, $8.5 billion and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (3) Represents changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. The year ended December 31, 2001 includes an increase to policyholder account values of $181 million representing cumulative conversions of client balances to products currently included in the business. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service defined contribution business amounted to $28.7 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $5.7 billion from $22.9 billion as of December 31, 2002. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of mutual funds and separate accounts as well as net sales of $1.8 billion, primarily as the result of a single large case sale in the third quarter of 2003. Account values for our guaranteed products business amounted to $42.0 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $2.9 billion from December 31, 2002, reflecting an increase in market value and interest income partially offset by net withdrawals of $757 million. Included in net withdrawals are sales of $1.050 billion from the sale of funding agreements issued through our Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program that was launched in 2003, as well a large sale in the third quarter of 2003 related to same case mentioned above. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service defined contribution business amounted to $22.9 billion as of December 31, 2002, a decrease of $1.7 billion from December 31, 2001. The decrease came primarily from a decline in market value of mutual funds reflecting the general downturn of the equity markets. This decline was partially offset by net sales of $610 million and $808 million added to customer accounts from inclusion of amounts not previously reflected in this segment and Common Stock received as demutualization consideration. Account values for guaranteed products amounted to $39.1 billion as of December 31, 2002, a decrease of $767 million from December 31, 2001. 64 Table of Contents Other Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Other Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 101 $ 90 $ 105 Expenses 55 45 50 Adjusted operating income (1) $ 46 $ 45 $ 55 (1) Results of this segment are the same on both an adjusted operating income basis and a GAAP basis. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income was essentially unchanged in 2003 from 2002, as an increase in earnings from our proprietary investment and syndication activities was offset by a decline in earnings from our hedge portfolios. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $10 million, from $55 million in 2001 to $45 million in 2002. Increases in adjusted operating income from our commercial mortgage securitization operation and proprietary investment and syndication activities were more than offset by a decline in the adjusted operating income of our hedge portfolios, which were significantly reduced in size during 2002. International Insurance and Investments Division International Insurance Our international insurance operations are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect the U.S. dollar results of our international insurance operations from period to period even if results on a local currency basis are relatively constant. Exchange rates fluctuated significantly for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001. The financial results of our International Insurance segment reflect the impact of forward currency transactions and internal hedges, whereby some currency fluctuation exposure, primarily associated with our Japanese insurance operations, including Gibraltar Life, is assumed in our Corporate and Other operations. These hedging transactions decreased adjusted operating income of the International Insurance segment by $46 million in 2003 and increased its adjusted operating income by $32 million in 2002 and $45 million in 2001. An integral element in the management of this exposure is our execution of forward currency transactions with independent counterparties, the results of which are reflected in Corporate and Other operations. Unless otherwise stated, we have translated all information in this section, including the impact of the currency hedging transactions, on the basis of actual exchange rates for the periods indicated. To provide a better understanding of local operating performance, where indicated below, we have analyzed local results both on the basis of actual exchange rates and on the basis of constant exchange rates. When we discuss constant exchange rate information below, it is on the basis of the average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2003. 65 Table of Contents Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating Results: Revenues: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 2,935 $ 2,379 $ 2,120 Gibraltar Life 2,720 2,694 2,026 5,655 5,073 4,146 Benefits and expenses: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life 2,486 2,000 1,771 Gibraltar Life 2,350 2,316 1,764 4,836 4,316 3,535 Adjusted operating income: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life 449 379 349 Gibraltar Life 370 378 262 819 757 611 Realized investment gains (losses), net(1) 21 (172 ) (57 ) Related charges(2) (35 ) (16 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 805 $ 569 $ 554 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses for Gibraltar Life exclude related charges which represent the portion of dividends to policyholders that represents realized investment gains required to be paid as dividends to policyholders. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The decrease in Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income reflected a $21 million negative impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income of Gibraltar Life increased $13 million in 2003 from 2002. This increase reflected improved investment results in 2003 and the negative impact in 2002 of refinements in estimates, primarily related to amounts due to policyholders. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in the amount of Gibraltar Lifes business in force as expected during the period following its restructuring and a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses in 2003 than the year ago period. Adjusted operating income from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $70 million, from $379 million in 2002 to $449 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income of our operations in countries other than Japan increased $56 million, from $37 million in 2002 to $93 million in 2003, including a $17 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. The $56 million increase came primarily from our operation in Korea, reflecting strong sales and continued favorable persistency. The contribution from continued growth of our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life and the more favorable level of policyholder benefits in 2003 was partially offset by a less favorable level of expenses which include costs of relocating to a new home office in Tokyo during the first quarter of 2003 and an $18 million negative impact of currency fluctuations. The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis, excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income, including results of Gibraltar Life, increased 11%. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for Gibraltar Life increased $116 million from $262 million for the initial eight months of operations in 2001, which included a $56 million gain from policy surrenders associated with the initial period of operations after restructuring, to $378 million for 2002. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income for 2002 reflects charges from refinements of estimates, primarily of amounts due to policyholders, and lower surrender gains due to more favorable persistency. The impact of these items was offset primarily by favorable mortality experience and a decrease in the estimated liability for guaranty fund assessments. 66 Table of Contents Gibraltar Lifes $378 million adjusted operating income reported for 2002 included expenses of approximately $25 million related to the refinements of estimates which considered Gibraltar Lifes first full year of operations following its reorganization, favorable mortality and improved investment results reflecting the transition from short term investments to longer term investments consistent with our asset liability management strategies. As a result of Gibraltar Lifes emergence from reorganization proceedings in April of 2001 and the reduction in benefits for in force policies, when we established Gibraltar Lifes initial liability for future policy benefits, we assumed a higher than normal level of policy surrenders for the near term. Our surrender rate assumptions commencing at the date of reorganization were 6% in the first year and 4% thereafter for paid up policies and range from 2% to 38% in the first year, 3% to 14% in the second year, and 6% to 10% thereafter for premium paying policies. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income included in our results for 2002 was reduced by $21 million because of the deviation of policy surrenders from our initial assumptions. Adjusted operating income, excluding Gibraltar Life, increased $30 million from $349 million in 2001 to $379 million in 2002. Adjusted operating income from our Japanese insurance operation increased $7 million, from $335 million in 2001 to $342 million in 2002. The contribution from continued growth of our existing Japanese insurance operation was partially offset in 2002 by a $19 million negative impact of currency fluctuations and a loss from the termination of a large case that provided individual life insurance coverage to multiple employees of an organization. Our adjusted operating income from operations in countries other than Japan increased $23 million, from $14 million in 2001 to $37 million in 2002, as increased profits from our operation in Korea, reflecting strong sales and continued favorable persistency, offset continued costs of expansion into other countries and the $8 million benefit to results of the year ago period from a refinement in the methodology used to calculate reserves in our Korean operation. Excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life would have had a 20% increase in adjusted operating income over the prior year. The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis and excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income, including results of Gibraltar Life, increased $175 million. Revenues 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $582 million from 2002 to 2003, which include a net favorable impact of $291 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $291 million, from $5.436 billion in 2002 to $5.727 billion in 2003. Revenues on this basis from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $419 million, or 17%. This increase in revenues came primarily from an increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $373 million, or 16%, from $2.343 billion in 2002 to $2.716 billion in 2003. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $210 million, from $1.734 billion in 2002 to $1.944 billion in 2003 and premiums from our Korean operation increased $120 million, from $459 million in 2002 to $579 million in 2003. The increase in premium and policy charges and fee income in both operations was primarily the result of new sales and strong persistency. Premiums in all other countries increased modestly from 2002 to 2003. Revenues for Gibraltar Life excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, decreased $128 million, from $2.898 billion in 2002 to $2.770 billion in 2003. Gibraltar Lifes decrease of $128 million is primarily due to a $114 million decline in premium revenue. The decline in premium revenue reflects a reduction in the in force business resulting from a higher than normal level of policy surrenders associated with the periods following Gibraltar Lifes restructuring. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $927 million from $4.146 billion in 2001 to $5.073 billion in 2002, including a net unfavorable effect of $191 million related to currency fluctuations. Revenues on a constant exchange rate basis increased $1.118 billion, $765 million from Gibraltar Life and $353 million from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life. The $353 million increase in revenues from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life came primarily from an increase in premium revenue of $301 million, or 16%, from $1.925 billion in 2001 to $2.226 billion in 2002. Premiums, on this same basis, from our Korean operation increased $150 million, from $309 million in 2001 to $459 million in 2002, and premiums in our Japanese operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $125 million primarily the result of strong persistency and new sales. Premium revenue in all other countries increased $26 million from 2001 to 2002. 67 Table of Contents Benefits and Expenses 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $520 million, from $4.316 billion in 2002 to $4.836 billion in 2003, which include a negative impact of $316 million relating currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $204 million reflecting a $347 million increase in our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, partially offset by a $143 million decrease from Gibraltar Life. The $347 million increase in our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, reflects an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, and an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs resulting from the aging of business in force and a greater volume of business in force in our Japanese and Korean operations, which was driven by new sales and continued strong persistency. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $34 million, from $2.316 billion in 2002 to $2.350 billion in 2003, which include an increase of $177 million relating to year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses decreased $143 million, from $2.518 billion in 2002 to $2.375 billion in 2003. The $143 million decrease is primarily due to a decrease in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, as a result of a continued reduction of the in force business resulting from a higher than normal level of policy surrenders associated with the periods following Gibraltar Lifes restructuring. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $781 million from $3.535 billion in 2001 to $4.316 billion in 2002, including a $552 million increase from Gibraltar Life. Excluding the impact of the Gibraltar Life acquisition, benefits and expenses increased $229 million, or 13%, from $1.771 billion in 2001 to $2.000 billion in 2002. The $229 million increase in benefits and expenses came primarily from an increase of $164 million in policyholders benefits, which includes the change in reserves for future policy benefits, and an increase of $56 million in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Policyholders benefits increased from $1.382 billion in 2001 to $1.546 billion in 2002. The increase reflected a greater volume of business in force, which was driven by the aging of business in force in markets where our operations are more mature, new sales, and continued strong persistency, partially offset by the impact of currency fluctuations. On a constant exchange rate basis, total segment benefits and expenses increased $944 million. Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, as well as revenues, because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. New annualized premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis are as follows for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) New annualized premiums: On an actual exchange rate basis: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 608 $ 510 $ 582 Gibraltar Life 296 233 110 Total $ 904 $ 743 $ 692 On a constant exchange rate basis: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 608 $ 540 $ 608 Gibraltar Life 299 253 116 Total $ 907 $ 793 $ 724 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $114 million, or 14%, from 2002 to 2003, reflecting a $46 million increase from Gibraltar Life. On the same basis, new annualized premiums from our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $66 million, or 20%, to $398 million in 2003, which benefited from the conclusion of an agent conference qualification period. There was no similar benefit to 2002. An increase in the Life Planner count also contributed to the growth in sales. Sales in all other countries, also on a constant exchange rate basis were essentially unchanged, primarily as a result of the benefit to sales in 2002 in our operation in Korea, from sales activity in anticipation of a premium rate increase in April 2002. 68 Table of Contents 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $69 million from 2001 to 2002, including an increase of $137 million from Gibraltar Life. On that basis, new annualized premiums from our operations in Japan were $584 million in 2002, including $253 million from Gibraltar Life, compared to $505 million in 2001 when Gibraltar Lifes sales force sold policies for our existing Japanese insurance operation during a portion of the year, pending the completion of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization. Since the first quarter of 2001, the Gibraltar Life sales force has distributed only Gibraltar Life products. Sales in Japan other than Gibraltar Life during 2001 were particularly strong due to anticipated premium rate increases that took effect on April 1, 2001 and October 1, 2001. Sales in all other countries, also on a constant exchange rate basis, decreased $11 million as a result of a decrease from our operations in Taiwan and Korea, where 2002 sales were affected by premium rate increases in 2001. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. Interest rates guaranteed in our Japanese insurance contracts are regulated by Japanese authorities. Between July 1, 1996, and April 1, 1999, we guaranteed premium rates using an interest rate of 3.1% on most of the products we sold in Japan even though the yield on Japanese government and high quality corporate bonds was less than that much of this time. This resulted in some negative investment spreads for much of this business over this period. As a consequence, our profitability with respect to these products in Japan during that period resulted primarily from margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges. In response to the low interest rate environment, Japanese regulators approved a reduction in the required rates for most of the products we sell to 2.35% in April 1999, which results in our charging higher premiums on new business for the same amount of insurance. While this has also resulted in an improvement in investment spreads, these spreads continued to have a negative impact on adjusted operating income from our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life in 2003, 2002, and 2001 and the profitability of these products in Japan continues to result primarily from margins on mortality, morbidity, and expense charges. In 2001 and 2003, Japanese regulators approved further reductions in the required interest rates applicable to most of the products we sell. As a result, we increased premium rates on many of our products sold in Japan when the new rates were implemented, in April 2001, October 2001, and August 2003 for some products. Additionally, interest rates on our guaranteed products sold in Korea are regulated by Korean authorities, who approved, in April 2001, January 2002, April 2002, and January 2003, reductions in the required interest rates credited for most of the products we sell, allowing us to charge higher premiums on new business for the same amount of insurance. While these actions enhance our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products in Korea, as in Japan, are margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality tables. Our mortality experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis for 2003, 2002 and 2001 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. International Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. In the second quarter of 2003 we decided to exit certain operations of two Japanese asset management units, and all periods presented below exclude the results of these operations, as they have been included within divested businesses. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 356 $ 325 $ 296 Expenses 373 331 340 Adjusted operating income (17 ) (6 ) (44 ) Realized investment losses, net(1) (52 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ (69 ) $ (6 ) $ (44 ) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. 69 Table of Contents 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Our International Investments segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $17 million for 2003, compared to a loss of $6 million in 2002, as 2003 included a charge of $34 million to write off a receivable related to an investment in Korea. Excluding this charge, adjusted operating income increased $23 million. The improved results reflect the benefit of recently acquired units and a lower level of expenses related to our existing businesses, as well as higher earnings from our global derivatives businesses. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Our International Investments segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $6 million for 2002 compared to a loss of $44 million in 2001. The $38 million reduction in the loss reflected earnings from recently acquired units and lower expenses resulting from our earlier actions to reduce the cost structure. Corporate and Other Operations Corporate and Other operations include corporate level activities that we do not allocate to our business segments, real estate and relocation services, and international ventures and businesses that we have placed in wind down status but have not divested, which, collectively, we refer to as Other Businesses. Corporate level activities consist primarily of corporate level income and expenses not allocated to any of our business segments, costs for company wide initiatives in years prior to 2003, income from our qualified pension plans and investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any of our segments. Corporate level activities also include returns from investments that we do not allocate to any of our business segments, including a debt financed investment portfolio, which was substantially reduced in 2001 and liquidated in 2002, as well as the impact of transactions with other segments. Corporate level activities also include certain retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Operating Results: Corporate level activities(1) $ 42 $ 121 $ 1 Other businesses: Real Estate and Relocation Services 63 46 (11 ) Other (12 ) (7 ) (15 ) Adjusted operating income 93 160 (25 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) (36 ) (90 ) 180 Divested businesses(3) (185 ) (15 ) 58 Sales practices remedies and costs(4) (20 ) Demutualization(5) (588 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ (128 ) $ 35 $ (375 ) (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. (2) See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. for a discussion of these items. (3) See Divested Businesses for a discussion of the results of our divested businesses. (4) See Sales Practices Remedies and Costs for a discussion of our life insurance sales practices remedies and costs. (5) See Demutualization Costs and Expenses for a discussion of our demutualization costs and expenses. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $93 million in 2003 and $160 million in 2002, a decline of $67 million. Adjusted operating income from corporate level activities decreased $79 million, from $121 million in 2002 to $42 million in 2003. Income from our qualified pension plan declined $130 million, from $502 million in 2002 to $372 million in 2003, reflecting a decline in the expected rate of return on plan assets from 9.50% to 8.75% and a reduction in the discount rate from 7.25% to 6.50%. For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2004, we will apply a discount rate of 5.75%, compared to 6.50% in 2003, and we will continue to apply an expected return on plan assets of 8.75% and a 4.50% rate of increase in compensation levels. We determined our expected return on plan assets based upon the arithmetic average of prospective returns, which is based upon a risk free rate as of the measurement date adjusted by a risk premium that considers historical statistics and expected investment manager performance, for equity, debt and real estate markets applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions, we expect that income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to 70 Table of Contents adjusted operating income in 2004, but at a level of about $20 million to $30 million below that of the year 2003. In 2004, pension service costs related to active employees will be allocated to our business segments. The increase in allocated expenses to our business segments will be partially offset by a reduction in the allocation of other benefit costs related to non active employees which will be retained in Corporate level activities. Investment income, net of interest expense, declined by $57 million, reflecting the funding of the acquisition of American Skandia and share repurchases. Corporate level general and administrative expenses were $551 million in 2003, before qualified pension income, compared to $626 million in 2002, a decrease of $75 million. General and administrative expenses for 2003 included $37 million of costs related to a structured financing transaction. General and administrative expenses, other than this cost, decreased by $112 million primarily due to reduced costs pertaining to certain company wide initiatives, as well as our outsourcing of certain human resource support functions to a third party. Corporate level activities included $23 million of costs in 2003 from retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation, as compared to $96 million in 2002. The lower costs in 2003 were primarily attributable to improved equity market conditions in 2003. The costs in 2002 were partially offset by a $26 million reduction of a liability we established in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we had not received a death claim but where death had occurred, due to a change in our estimate. Other businesses included in Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $51 million in 2003 compared to $39 million in 2002. The improvement relates to our real estate and relocation business, which benefited from decreased expenses in the current period. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $160 million in 2002 and a loss of $25 million in 2001, an increase of $185 million. Corporate level activities resulted in adjusted operating income of $121 million in 2002 and $1 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to higher investment income, net of interest expense, of $44 million. Corporate level activities benefited from the impact of the transfer of net assets from the Traditional Participating Products segment at the date of our demutualization and from cash and short term investments held at the parent company. This additional investment income was offset by lower returns from joint venture and limited partnership investments and reduced investment income, net of interest expense, from the wind down of a debt financed portfolio and lower yields on corporate level invested assets. Corporate level general and administrative expenses were $626 million in 2002, before qualified pension income, compared to $727 million in 2001. Lower expenses, reflecting in part the impact of previous expense reduction initiatives, more than offset expenses incurred in the 2002 period associated with servicing our stockholder base and expenses associated with the implementation of our organizational changes announced in August 2002. Income from our own qualified pension plan amounted to $502 million in 2002, compared to $540 million in 2001. The $38 million decline reflects changes in pension plan assumptions, primarily a decrease in the discount rate from 7.75% to 7.25%. Corporate level activities in 2002 included expenses of $96 million related to supplemental benefits paid to policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation. These expenses were partially offset by a $26 million reduction, in 2002, of a liability we established in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we had not received a death claim but where death had occurred, due to a change in our estimate. In 2001 Corporate level activities included a $20 million charge offsetting the income earned by Prudential Securities as co manager in the initial public offering of our Common Stock, which was included in adjusted operating income of our Financial Advisory segment. Other businesses included in Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $39 million in 2002, as compared to a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $26 million in 2001. The improvement relates primarily to our real estate and relocation business, which reported adjusted operating income of $46 million in 2002 compared to a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $11 million in 2001. The loss in 2001 reflected expenses of $35 million incurred by this business to consolidate its operating facilities, while 2002 results benefited from increased transaction volume, lower expense levels and activities of a subsidiary acquired in the fourth quarter of 2001. In addition, losses from the remaining operations included in other businesses decreased $8 million, on an adjusted operating income basis, from $15 million in 2001 to $7 million in 2002, primarily reflecting the write off of goodwill in our international ventures unit in 2001. 71 Table of Contents Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations before income taxes includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under GAAP. The results of divested business are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations. A summary of the income from continuing operations before income taxes for these businesses is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Property and casualty insurance $ (347 ) $ 71 $ 200 Prudential Securities capital markets 287 (36 ) (159 ) Gibraltar Casualty (81 ) (79 ) Other divested businesses (41 ) 16 11 Total income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (182 ) (28 ) 52 Less: Realized investment gains (losses), net 3 (13 ) (6 ) Divested businesses excluding realized gain (losses), net $ (185 ) $ (15 ) $ 58 Property and Casualty Insurance In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed our previously announced agreements to sell our property and casualty insurance companies that operate nationally in 48 states outside of New Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group (Liberty Mutual), as well as our New Jersey property and casualty insurance companies to Palisades Group. Results of the property and casualty insurance operations have been reclassified as a divested business for all periods presented. Historically, the Individual Life and Annuities segment has been compensated for property and casualty insurance products sold through its distribution network. Following the sale of the property and casualty insurance operations, Prudential Agents will have continued access to non proprietary property and casualty products under distribution agreements entered into with the purchasers of these businesses, and therefore, the Individual Life and Annuities segment will continue to be compensated for sales of these products, although the extent of these revenues cannot be predicted. In addition, certain expenses incurred at the corporate level that previously were allocated to the Property and Casualty Insurance segment have been reclassified to Corporate and Other operations, for all periods presented. These expenses, which we will seek to mitigate over time, will continue to be absorbed by Corporate and Other operations in future periods. In addition, in 2003 we sold our specialty automobile insurance business and entered into an agreement to sell our work place distribution property and casualty insurance operations, which closed in the first quarter of 2004. The results of operations for these businesses are included in Loss from discontinued operations for all periods presented. Operating Results The following table sets forth the Property and Casualty Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) GAAP results: Revenues $ 1,569 $ 1,815 $ 1,707 Benefits and expenses 1,916 1,744 1,507 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ (347 ) $ 71 $ 200 Income From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $418 million, from income of $71 million in 2002 to a loss of $347 million in 2003. The loss in 2003 includes a charge of $491 million, which primarily reflects the write down of the assets to be sold to fair value and managements best 72 Table of Contents estimate of the cost of retained liabilities. The retained liabilities include pre closing litigation and obligations under reinsurance contracts provided in connection with potential adverse loss development on the business sold to Liberty Mutual. Excluding the $491 million charge recorded in the 2003 period, income from continuing operations increased by $73 million, primarily reflecting improved underwriting results. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes decreased $129 million, from $200 million in 2001 to $71 million in 2002. Results for 2002 reflected a $102 million lower net benefit from prior accident year development and a $39 million lower benefit from stop loss reinsurance recoveries. Other Divested Businesses The results for the Prudential Securities capital markets businesses in 2003 include the gain from a $332 million settlement of an arbitration award. Partly offsetting this gain in 2003, are losses related to the residual investment portfolio of the business that continues to be liquidated. The losses in 2002 and 2001 also reflect the liquidation of the residual investment portfolio, as well as costs related to the wind down of the business. The results for the Gibraltar Casualty Company, a commercial property and casualty insurer that we sold in September 2000 to Everest Re Group, Ltd. (Everest), reflect losses of $81 million in 2003 and $79 million in 2002 from a stop loss reinsurance agreement we entered into pursuant to the sale, whereby if and when aggregate post sale claim and claim related payments exceed Gibraltar Casualtys reserves recorded at the time of sale, we will pay Everest for 80% of the first $200 million of such excess. As of December 31, 2003, we are fully reserved for future payments under this agreement. Also reflected in other divested businesses are the results of the Prudential Home Mortgage business and certain international securities operations, as well as the operations of certain Japanese asset management units. Sales Practices Remedies and Costs Our income from continuing operations before income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2002 includes a pre tax charge of $20 million of additional individual life sales practices costs including related administrative costs, litigation costs and settlements, which is reflected in our Corporate and Other operations. Demutualization Costs and Expenses We incurred costs and expenses related to demutualization totaling $588 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, which are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations. Demutualization costs in 2001 included $340 million of demutualization consideration paid to our former Canadian branch policyholders. Demutualization expenses consisted primarily of the costs of engaging independent accounting, actuarial, investment banking, legal and other consultants that advised us and insurance regulators in the demutualization process and related matters as well as printing and postage for communication with policyholders. Results of Operations of Closed Block Business We established the Closed Block Business effective at the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional participating policies. See Overview Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business for additional details. At the end of each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable for participating policies for the following year based on its statutory results and past experience, including investment income, net realized investment gains over a number of years, mortality experience and other factors. As required by GAAP, we developed an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block, and if actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expect, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to 73 Table of Contents Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any policyholder dividend obligations that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expect in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. If cumulative performance is less favorable than we expected, the policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will be the actual dividends declared by the Board of Directors. Subsequent to the date of demutualization, there was no required charge to expense to recognize a policyholder dividend obligation for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expect. However, net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation to be paid to Closed Block policyholders, unless otherwise offset by future experience, with an offsetting amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, and, as such, we have a policyholder dividend obligation to Closed Block policyholders of $2.443 billion recorded as of December 31, 2003. Operating Results Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented only in accordance with GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business GAAP results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) GAAP results: Revenues $ 7,982 $ 7,121 $ 7,728 Benefits and expenses 7,612 7,878 8,347 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes $ 370 $ (757 ) $ (619 ) Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased $1.127 billion to $370 million in 2003, from a loss of $757 million in 2002. The increase in income from continuing operations before income taxes reflects an increase in realized investment gains (losses), net, of $1.013 billion in 2003 from 2002. In addition, dividends to policyholders decreased by $54 million, reflecting reductions in the dividend scale for 2003, and a decline in operating expenses of $49 million. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Loss from continuing operations before income taxes increased $138 million, to $757 million for 2002 from $619 million in 2001. The increase in the loss from continuing operations before income taxes reflects a decline in net investment income, including interest expense on the IHC debt, of $402 million. This decline reflects our transfer of $5.6 billion of net assets previously associated with the former Traditional Participating Products segment at the date of our demutualization in late 2001 and a lower investment yield on the assets remaining in the Closed Block Business, as well as interest expense associated with the IHC debt that we issued in December 2001. Partially offsetting these items was a decrease in the charge for policyholder dividends of $127 million, reflecting changes in the dividend scale for 2002 and 2003. In addition, we established $144 million of reserves in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we had not received a death claim but where death had occurred. Lastly, we benefited from our expense reduction efforts, for which the Closed Block Business incurred $48 million of implementation costs in 2001. Revenues 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $861 million, or 12%, in 2003 from 2002. Realized investment gains (losses), net, increased $1.013 billion, from net realized investment losses of $587 million in 2002 to net realized investment gains of $426 million in 2003. Premiums decreased $162 million from $4.022 billion in 2002 to $3.860 billion in 2003. We expect the decline in premiums for this business to continue as the policies in force mature or terminate in this closed block of traditional participating insurance. 74 Table of Contents 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $607 million, or 8%, from 2001 to 2002. Net investment income declined $279 million, from $3.897 billion in 2001 to $3.618 billion in 2002, for the reasons discussed above. Premiums decreased $228 million, or 5%, from $4.250 billion in 2001 to $4.022 billion in 2002, reflecting a decline in first year and renewal premiums as well as paid up additions, which represent additional insurance purchased with policyholder dividends. Realized investment losses, net of gains, increased $44 million, from $543 million in 2001 to $587 million in 2002. Benefits and Expenses 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $266 million, or 3%, in 2003 from 2002. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, including interest credited to policyholders accounts, decreased $131 million, from $4.444 billion in 2002 to $4.313 billion in 2003, consistent with the discontinuation of sales of traditional products, as discussed above. Dividends to policyholders amounted to $2.452 billion in 2003, a decrease of $54 million, from $2.506 billion in 2002, reflecting reductions in the dividend scale for 2003 based on evaluations of the experience underlying the dividend scale. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $49 million in 2003 from 2002, reflecting lower distribution costs as we have discontinued sales of traditional products as well as our continued efforts to reduce operating cost levels. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $469 million, or 6%, from 2001 to 2002. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $136 million, from 2001 to 2002, reflecting our efforts to reduce operating cost levels and $48 million of implementation costs for this program incurred by the Closed Block Business in 2001. An increase in interest expense associated with the IHC debt we issued in December 2001 was a partial offset. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, including interest credited to policyholders accounts, decreased $278 million, from $4.722 billion in 2001 to $4.444 billion in 2002. Policyholder benefits for 2001 included $144 million of reserves established for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we had not received a death claim but where death has occurred. Reserves established for new and renewal business decreased in 2002, consistent with our expectations and reflecting our discontinuation of sales of traditional products discussed above, partially offset by growth in reserves due to aging of policies in force. Dividends to policyholders amounted to $2.506 billion in 2002, a decrease of $127 million, or 5%, from $2.633 billion in 2001. The decline reflects reductions in the dividend scales for 2002 and 2003 based on evaluations of the experience underlying the dividend scale. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth policy surrender experience for the Closed Block Business, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 1,364 $ 1,234 $ 1,246 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves 2.9 % 2.6 % 2.7 % 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $130 million in 2003 from 2002. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves increased to 2.9% in 2003 from 2.6% in 2002. The increase reflects the surrender of a few large cash value policies during 2003. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $12 million in 2002 from 2001, primarily as a result of our efforts during 2001 to locate policyholders in connection with our demutualization. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves was relatively unchanged in 2002 from 2001. 75 Table of Contents Income Taxes Shown below is our income tax provision (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax provision (benefit) that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods. Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Tax provision (benefit) $ 650 $ (189 ) $ (32 ) Impact of: Effect of change in repatriation assumption for certain international operations (120 ) Disposition of subsidiaries 78 183 Adjustments to mutual life insurance company tax estimated liability 200 Tax provision (benefit) excluding these items $ 608 $ (6 ) $ 168 Tax provision (benefit) at statutory rate $ 685 $ 28 $ (42 ) For the year ended December 31, 2003, the difference between taxes excluding the items shown above and taxes that would have resulted from the application of the statutory rate is attributable, in part, to nontaxable investment income, reductions in foreign tax rates and an increase in tax credits, partially offset by an increase in state taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the difference between taxes excluding the items shown above and taxes that would have resulted from the application of the statutory rate is attributable, in part, to the inclusion of non deductible demutualization costs and expenses in income from continuing operations. Discontinued Operations Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under GAAP. A summary of the results of discontinued operations by business is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (in millions) Property and casualty operations $ (28 ) $ (32 ) $ (21 ) International securities operations (76 ) (69 ) (40 ) Web based workplace distribution of voluntary benefits (58 ) (20 ) Healthcare operations 11 71 25 Other (13 ) 3 (25 ) Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes (106 ) (85 ) (81 ) Income tax benefit (62 ) (10 ) (16 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes $ (44 ) $ (75 ) $ (65 ) Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains Realized investment gains, net of losses, primarily include gains and losses resulting from sales and impairments of fixed income and equity investments, prepayment premiums we receive on private bond issues, and gains and losses in connection with derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We perform impairment reviews on an ongoing basis and record an impairment charge when we determine that a decline in value is other than temporary. The level of impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. We may realize additional credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as much as by the interest rate environment. 76 Table of Contents We use derivative contracts to hedge the risk that changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates will affect the market value of certain investments. We also use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our non U.S. businesses. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to be announced mortgage backed securities primarily related to our mortgage dollar roll program. The vast majority of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and consequently we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily account for the hedged assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our hedging activities contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income. The comparisons below discuss realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges and adjustments. Related charges, which are not applicable to the Closed Block Business, pertain to policyholder dividends, deferred policy acquisition costs and reserves for future policy benefits. A percentage of net realized investment gains on specified Gibraltar Life assets is required to be paid as dividends to Gibraltar Life policyholders. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs for interest sensitive products based on estimated gross profits, which include net realized investment gains on the underlying invested assets, and the related charge for amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs represents the amortization related to net realized investment gains. We adjust the reserves for some of our policies when cash flows related to these policies are affected by net realized investment gains, and the related charge for reserves for future policy benefits represents that adjustment. The changes in these related charges from one period to another may be disproportionate to the changes in realized investment gains, net of losses, evaluated over several periods. A portion of realized gains, pertaining to certain derivative results, is included in adjusted operating income. Pursuant to a currency hedging program, we execute forward sale contracts in the hedged currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these contracts correspond with future periods in which non U.S. earnings are expected to be generated. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP. All resulting profits or losses from such contracts, including mark to market adjustments of open contracts, are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. When the contracts are terminated in the same period that the expected earnings emerge, the resulting positive or negative cash flow is included in adjusted operating income. In addition, we utilize interest and currency swaps to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. For the swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, mark to market adjustments of open contracts as well as periodic settlements are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Periodic settlements pertaining to such contracts are included in adjusted operating income. 77 Table of Contents The following tables set forth realized investment gains (losses), net, by investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. For a discussion of our investment portfolio and related results, including overall income yield and investment income, as well our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value, see General Account Investments below. Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Realized investment gains (losses), net: Financial Services Businesses $ (156 ) $ (778 ) $ (131 ) Closed Block Business 426 (587 ) (543 ) Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net $ 270 $ (1,365 ) $ (674 ) Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Financial Services Businesses: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments $ (93 ) $ (508 ) $ (345 ) Equity securities 23 (149 ) (59 ) Derivative instruments (231 ) (226 ) 236 Other 145 105 37 Total (156 ) (778 ) (131 ) Related adjustment for derivative (gains) losses included in adjusted operating income (94 ) (34 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, excluded from adjusted operating income $ (156 ) $ (872 ) $ (165 ) Related charges $ (43 ) $ 6 $ 26 Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Closed Block Business: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments $ 331 $ (212 ) $ (372 ) Equity securities (33 ) (186 ) (177 ) Derivative instruments 64 (174 ) (10 ) Other 64 (15 ) 16 Total $ 426 $ (587 ) $ (543 ) 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2003 were $156 million compared to $778 million in 2002. Realized losses in 2003 included fixed maturity impairments of $266 million and credit related losses of $22 million compared with $385 million and $470 million for 2002, respectively. Impairments in 2003 were concentrated in the manufacturing, finance, services and transportation sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Impairments in 2002 were concentrated in the transportation, technology, services, finance and manufacturing sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Realized losses in 2003 and 2002 on fixed maturity securities were offset, in part, by realized gains driven largely by sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment, along with gains on private bond prepayment premiums. We realized net gains on equity securities of $23 million in 2003 compared to net losses of $149 million in 2002. We recognized $101 million and $164 million of impairments on equity securities in 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily related to our Gibraltar Life operations. The equity securities impairments in both periods were primarily the result of market declines over a prolonged period. Impairments on equity securities in 2003 were more than offset by equity trading gains, primarily in Gibraltar Life, as it shifted its portfolio to a passive index strategy. Realized losses in 2003 include net derivative losses of $231 million, compared to net derivative losses of $226 million in 2002. The losses in 2003 included negative mark to market adjustments of $161 million on forward currency contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Derivative losses in 2002 were primarily the result of losses of $152 million on treasury futures contracts used to manage the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio, as well as losses of $88 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. 78 Table of Contents For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2003 were $426 million compared to losses of $587 million in 2002. Realized gains in 2003 reflected net realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment and private bond prepayment premiums, partially offset by fixed maturity impairments of $123 million and credit related losses of $46 million. Impairments in 2003 were concentrated in the manufacturing, finance, and services sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Realized losses in 2002 included $302 million of fixed maturity impairments and $420 million of credit related losses, which were partially offset by realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment and private bond prepayment gains. Impairments in 2002 were concentrated in the transportation, services, technology, and finance sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. We realized net losses on equity securities of $33 million in 2003, including $59 million of impairments, compared to losses of $186 million in 2002, which included $145 million of impairments. The equity security impairments in both periods were primarily the result of market declines over a prolonged period. Net gains on derivatives were $64 million in 2003 compared to losses of $174 million in 2002. The derivative losses in 2002 were largely attributable to losses on equity futures contracts and currency hedges of non U.S. dollar investments. Realized investment gains in 2003 also include $41 million of gains in connection with the partial divestiture of an equity investment in a real estate operating company. 2002 to 2001 Annual Comparison. The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses for 2002 were $778 million compared to $131 million for 2001. Realized losses in 2002 included fixed maturity impairments of $385 million and credit related losses of $470 million for 2002 compared with $392 million and $225 million for 2001, respectively. These losses were offset in part, in both periods, by realized gains driven largely by sales of fixed income securities in declining rate environments and gains from prepayments of private bonds. We realized net losses on equity securities of $149 million in 2002, including $164 million of impairments, compared to losses of $59 million in 2001, which included $153 million of impairments. Realized losses for 2002 include derivative losses of $226 million, compared to derivative gains of $236 million for 2001. Derivative losses in 2002 were primarily the result of losses of $152 million on treasury futures contracts used to manage the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio, as well as losses of $88 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Derivative gains recorded for 2001 were primarily attributable to the impact of the strengthening dollar on currency hedges of non U.S. dollar investments, as well as gains on Japanese equity futures contracts held in anticipation of sales of equity securities. For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment losses for 2002 were $587 million compared to $543 million for 2001. Realized losses in 2002 include fixed maturity impairments of $302 million and credit related losses of $420 million, which were offset in part by realized gains on sales of fixed income securities and prepayment premiums. Realized losses in 2001 included fixed maturity impairments of $385 million and credit related losses of $184 million, which were offset in part by realized gains on sales of fixed income securities and prepayment premiums. We realized net losses on equity securities of $186 million in 2002, including $145 million of impairments, compared to losses of $177 million in 2001, which included $86 million of impairments. Net losses on derivatives were $174 million for 2002 compared to $10 million for 2001. Derivative losses for 2002 were largely attributable to losses on equity futures contracts and currency hedges of non U.S. dollar investments. General Account Investments We maintain a diversified investment portfolio in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our general account does not include assets of our securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. The General Account portfolio is managed pursuant to the distinct objectives of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; and maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders; and 79 Table of Contents maximizing total return and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business. Management of Investments We design asset mix strategies for our general account to match the characteristics of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocations within a disciplined risk management framework. Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions quarterly. Our Senior Vice President, Asset Liability and Risk Management, approves the investment policy for the general account assets of our insurance subsidiaries and oversees the investment process for our general account. Under his direction, the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group works with our business units to develop investment objectives, performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group also works closely with each of our business units to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into its processes. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group has the authority to initiate tactical shifts within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. The Investment Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those of our International Insurance segment, under the direction of the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally. Asset/Liability Management The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group uses a disciplined, risk controlled approach to asset/liability management. The methodology focuses on aligning assets to the effective sensitivity of the cash flow and return requirements of our liabilities. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group consults with the product experts in the businesses on an ongoing basis to arrive at asset/liability matching policies and decisions. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as we develop new products and as changes in the market environment occur. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized in to the following three classes: interest crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities; participating individual and experience rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as GICs. We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest sensitive products successfully through several market cycles. Portfolio Composition Our investment portfolio consists primarily of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial loans, equity securities and other invested assets. Portfolio composition is a critical element of our investment management process. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the diverse selection of investment alternatives available through our Investment Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. 80 Table of Contents Our total general account investments were $174.9 billion and $169.2 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which are segregated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Total general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $110.9 billion and $105.1 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while total general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were $64.0 billion and $64.1 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our general account as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2003 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 66,430 $ 29,538 $ 95,968 54.9 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,010 3,010 1.7 Private, available for sale, at fair value 17,921 15,052 32,973 18.9 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 58 58 Trading account assets, at fair value 226 226 0.1 Equity securities, at fair value 1,101 2,282 3,383 1.9 Commercial loans, at book value 11,774 7,006 18,780 10.7 Other long term investments(1) 3,702 1,041 4,743 2.7 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,609 5,543 8,152 4.7 Short term investments 4,052 3,581 7,633 4.4 Total general account investments 110,883 64,043 174,926 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 6,115 6,115 Total investments $ 116,998 $ 64,043 $ 181,041 As of December 31, 2002 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 61,975 $ 30,991 $ 92,966 55.0 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 2,563 2,563 1.5 Private, available for sale, at fair value 17,248 15,242 32,490 19.2 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 46 46 Trading account assets, at fair value 96 96 0.1 Equity securities, at fair value 1,267 1,521 2,788 1.6 Commercial loans, at book value 11,720 6,987 18,707 11.0 Other long term investments(1) 3,877 1,075 4,952 3.0 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 3,146 5,681 8,827 5.2 Short term investments 3,158 2,579 5,737 3.4 Total general account investments 105,096 64,076 169,172 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 14,036 14,036 Total investments $ 119,132 $ 64,076 $ 183,208 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures (other than our equity investment in Wachovia Securities) and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, our interest in separate account investments and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Includes invested assets of securities brokerage, securities trading, and banking operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. As of December 31, 2003, our general account investment portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses consisted primarily of $87.4 billion of fixed maturity securities (79% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 78% in 2002), $11.8 billion of commercial loans (11% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 11% in 2002), $1.1 billion of equity securities (1% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 1% in 2002) and $10.6 billion of other investments (9% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 10% in 2002). Portfolio growth in 2003 was due primarily to the reinvestment of net investment income. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003, our general account investment portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business consisted primarily of $44.6 billion of fixed maturity securities (70% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 72% in 2002), $7.0 billion of commercial loans (11% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 11% in 2002), $2.3 billion of equity securities (3% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 2% in 2002) and $10.1 billion of other investments (16% of the total portfolio in 2003 and 15% in 2002). The portfolio size was relatively the same as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 as the reinvestment of net investment income was largely offset by net operating outflows. Investment Results The overall income yield on our general account investments after investment expenses, excluding realized investment gains (losses), was 5.51% and 5.73% for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decline in yield on the portfolio in 2003 from 2002 is primarily attributable to reinvestment activities over the last two years in a declining interest rate environment. The net investment income yield attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 4.96% for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to 5.16% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The change in yield between periods was primarily due to declines in fixed maturities and commercial loan yields primarily attributable to reinvestment activities in a declining interest rate environment and lower mortgage prepayment fees in 2003, partially offset by more favorable results from limited partnerships within other investments. The yield on the Financial Services Businesses reflects the income yield on the investment portfolio of our Japanese insurance operations, which was 2.02% for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to 1.93% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio in 2003 from 2002 is primarily attributable to the redeployment of excess cash and investment in U.S. mortgage backed bonds during 2002. The net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business was 6.49% for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to 6.75% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The change in yield between periods was primarily due to declines in fixed maturities primarily attributable to reinvestment activities in a declining interest rate environment, partially offset by more favorable results from limited partnerships within other investments. Continuation of the current low interest rate environment will result in our reinvestment of maturing securities at lower rates and would reduce the yield we are able to earn on our investments, which support our obligations for certain products, including traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts. This reduction in yield would also have a corresponding impact on the spread, which is the difference between the yield on our investments and the amounts that we are required to pay our customers related to these products and which could have a negative impact on our future profitability. 82 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses), for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. For the year ended December 31, 2003 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.82 % $ 3,708 6.81 % $ 2,703 5.49 % $ 6,411 Equity securities 1.50 16 2.21 39 1.95 55 Commercial loans 7.15 803 8.39 564 7.61 1,367 Policy loans 5.35 150 6.40 347 6.04 497 Short term investments and cash equivalents 1.82 104 2.17 78 1.93 182 Other investments 8.97 372 9.92 101 9.16 473 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.12 5,153 6.73 3,832 5.70 8,985 Investment expenses (.16 ) (224 ) (.24 ) (200 ) (.19 ) (424 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.96 % 4,929 6.49 % 3,632 5.51 % 8,561 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 120 120 Total investment income $ 5,049 $ 3,632 $ 8,681 For the year ended December 31, 2002 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 5.20 % $ 3,596 7.33 % $ 2,828 5.96 % $ 6,424 Equity securities 2.54 42 2.48 30 2.52 72 Commercial loans 7.44 888 8.37 528 7.77 1,416 Policy loans 5.85 169 6.50 360 6.28 529 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.18 200 3.56 112 2.39 312 Other investments 7.01 310 (0.88 ) (4 ) 5.31 306 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.31 5,205 7.00 3,854 5.92 9,059 Investment expenses (.15 ) (225 ) (.25 ) (236 ) (.19 ) (461 ) Investment income after investment expenses 5.16 % 4,980 6.75 % 3,618 5.73 % 8,598 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 221 221 Total investment income $ 5,201 $ 3,618 $ 8,819 (1) Yields are based on average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for securities lending activity are calculated net of corresponding liabilities and rebate expenses. Yields for 2002 are presented on a basis consistent with our current reporting practices. (2) Investment income of securities brokerage and securities trading operations. Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Mix Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly traded and private placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. Our international portfolios are predominantly foreign government securities. We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed by the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group and, in the case of our international insurance portfolios, to a profile that reflects local market regulations and our investment competencies in these markets. We seek to employ relative value analysis both in credit selection and in purchasing and selling securities. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments. We use our private placement and asset backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has directly originated more than half of our annual private placement originations. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. 83 Table of Contents Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $83.0 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $87.4 billion as of December 31, 2003 versus $77.3 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $81.9 billion as of December 31, 2002. Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $41.3 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $44.6 billion as of December 31, 2003 versus $43.2 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $46.2 billion as of December 31, 2002. Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Amortized Cost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2004 $ 3,961 4.8 % $ 2,319 5.6 % Maturing in 2005 6,068 7.3 2,627 6.4 Maturing in 2006 5,819 7.0 2,247 5.4 Maturing in 2007 5,317 6.4 2,512 6.1 Maturing in 2008 6,475 7.8 2,712 6.6 Maturing in 2009 5,267 6.3 2,241 5.4 Maturing in 2010 5,960 7.2 2,194 5.3 Maturing in 2011 6,283 7.6 2,459 6.0 Maturing in 2012 4,613 5.6 2,293 5.6 Maturing in 2013 and beyond 33,203 40.0 19,689 47.6 Total Fixed Maturities $ 82,966 100.0 % $ 41,293 100.0 % Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Industry(1) AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 13,115 $ 996 $ 61 $ 14,050 $ 12,505 $ 886 $ 86 $ 13,305 Finance 10,839 569 57 11,351 8,594 538 34 9,098 Services 6,646 570 26 7,190 4,775 349 46 5,078 Utilities 6,467 630 28 7,069 6,115 527 83 6,559 Energy 2,829 289 10 3,108 3,590 353 25 3,918 Retail and Wholesale 2,402 147 24 2,525 2,533 199 30 2,702 Transportation 1,800 166 4 1,962 1,996 128 10 2,114 Other 646 31 14 663 446 22 2 466 Total Corporate Securities 44,744 3,398 224 47,918 40,554 3,002 316 43,240 Foreign Government 23,075 892 91 23,876 20,375 1,184 1 21,558 Asset Backed Securities 6,189 121 19 6,291 5,732 142 30 5,844 Mortgage Backed 4,966 94 28 5,032 4,751 203 3 4,951 U.S. Government 3,992 333 7 4,318 5,863 437 1 6,299 Total $ 82,966 $ 4,838 $ 369 $ 87,435 $ 77,275 $ 4,968 $ 351 $ 81,892 (1) Investment data has been classified based on Lehman industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes $42 million of gross unrealized gains and $26 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 compared to $67 million of gross unrealized gains and $7 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2002 on securities classified as held to maturity, which are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 84 Table of Contents As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2003, consist primarily of 28% foreign government sector, 16% manufacturing sector, 13% finance sector, 8% services sector, and 8% utilities sector compared to 26% foreign government sector, 16% manufacturing sector, 11% finance sector, 8% utilities sector, and 8% U.S. government sector as of December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, 92% of the mortgage backed securities in the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass through securities related to residential mortgage loans. Collateralized mortgage obligations represented the remaining 8% of mortgage backed securities, and less than 1% of fixed maturities. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2003, compared to $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2002. The gross unrealized losses in 2003 were concentrated primarily in the foreign government, manufacturing and finance sectors while gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in the manufacturing, utilities, and services sectors. Non investment grade securities represented 13% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2003 versus 51% of gross unrealized losses in 2002. The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Industry(1) AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fairvalue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 9,412 $ 770 $ 33 $ 10,149 $ 8,993 $ 675 $ 83 $ 9,585 Finance 5,587 368 5 5,950 5,322 400 13 5,709 Utilities 5,398 584 24 5,958 4,921 454 72 5,303 Services 5,088 554 10 5,632 4,332 370 40 4,662 Energy 2,280 267 3 2,544 2,318 261 7 2,572 Retail and Wholesale 1,990 200 1 2,189 2,613 265 21 2,857 Transportation 1,196 112 4 1,304 1,210 82 16 1,276 Other 29 5 34 273 20 3 290 Total Corporate Securities 30,980 2,860 80 33,760 29,982 2,527 255 32,254 U.S. Government 4,844 284 31 5,097 4,422 446 6 4,862 Mortgage Backed 1,372 50 2 1,420 5,055 143 3 5,195 Asset Backed Securities 2,842 45 8 2,879 2,851 62 12 2,901 Foreign Government 1,255 182 3 1,434 887 136 2 1,021 Total $ 41,293 $ 3,421 $ 124 $ 44,590 $ 43,197 $ 3,314 $ 278 $ 46,233 (1) Investment data has been classified based on Lehman industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2003, consist primarily of 23% manufacturing sector, 14% finance sector, 13% utilities sector, 12% services sector, and 12% U.S. Government compared to 21% manufacturing sector, 12% finance sector, 12% mortgage backed securities, 11% utilities sector and 10% services sector as of December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, 73% of the mortgage backed securities in the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass through securities related to residential mortgage loans. Collateralized mortgage obligations represented the remaining 27% of mortgage backed securities, and less than 1% of fixed maturities. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business were $0.1 billion as of December 31, 2003, compared to $0.3 billion as of December 31, 2002. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003, were concentrated primarily in the manufacturing, U.S. Government and utilities sectors while gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in manufacturing, utilities, and services sectors. Non investment grade securities represented 40% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2003, versus 63% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2002. 85 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office (SVO) of the NAIC evaluates the investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. NAIC designations of 1 or 2 include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys or BBB or higher by S&P. NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys and BB+ or lower by S&P. As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. Non U.S. dollar denominated investments of our Japanese insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines; however, they are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the Financial Services Agencys credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the non U.S. dollar denominated investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by Moodys or rating equivalents based on Japanese government ratings. The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $5.7 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003, compared to $6.1 billion, or 8%, of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2002. The decrease in the amount of below investment grade fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003, from a year earlier was primarily driven by SVO ratings upgrades, principally on private bonds, as well as the maturity or prepayment of some below investment grade bonds. The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $5.9 billion, or 14%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003, compared to $6.0 billion, or 14%, of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2002. Public Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 50,133 $ 2,247 $ 210 $ 52,170 $ 47,430 $ 2,968 $ 35 $ 50,363 2 Baa 13,767 900 91 14,576 11,281 671 110 11,842 Subtotal Investment Grade 63,900 3,147 301 66,746 58,711 3,639 145 62,205 3 Ba 1,580 167 11 1,736 1,730 68 56 1,742 4 B 757 89 3 843 519 20 23 516 5 C and lower 67 30 2 95 94 5 17 82 6 In or near default 34 3 1 36 50 3 1 52 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 2,438 289 17 2,710 2,393 96 97 2,392 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 66,338 $ 3,436 $ 318 $ 69,456 $ 61,104 $ 3,735 $ 242 $ 64,597 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, 27 securities with amortized cost of $149 million (fair value, $151 million) and 65 securities with amortized cost of $307 million (fair value, $306 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $41 million of gross unrealized gains and $25 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 compared to $66 million of gross unrealized gains and $7 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2002 on securities classified as held to maturity which are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 86 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. (1) As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 17,277 $ 1,071 $ 48 $ 18,300 $ 20,110 $ 1,435 $ 14 $ 21,531 2 Baa 7,052 551 16 7,587 6,137 440 51 6,526 Subtotal Investment Grade 24,329 1,622 64 25,887 26,247 1,875 65 28,057 3 Ba 1,954 190 2 2,142 1,896 82 55 1,923 4 B 1,283 109 5 1,387 880 33 42 871 5 C and lower 91 17 1 107 146 5 27 124 6 In or near default 12 3 0 15 17 1 16 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,340 319 8 3,651 2,939 120 125 2,934 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 27,669 $ 1,941 $ 72 $ 29,538 $ 29,186 $ 1,995 $ 190 $ 30,991 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, 65 securities with amortized cost of $204 million (fair value, $211 million) and 30 securities with amortized cost of $193 million (fair value, $193 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 4,647 $ 400 $ 7 $ 5,040 $ 4,945 $ 457 $ 5 $ 5,397 2 Baa 8,749 749 13 9,485 7,519 632 23 8,128 Subtotal Investment Grade 13,396 1,149 20 14,525 12,464 1,089 28 13,525 3 Ba 2,004 146 13 2,137 2,275 99 41 2,333 4 B 508 38 3 543 597 21 13 605 5 C and lower 552 62 12 602 700 20 24 696 6 In or near default 168 7 3 172 135 4 3 136 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,232 253 31 3,454 3,707 144 81 3,770 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 16,628 $ 1,402 $ 51 $ 17,979 $ 16,171 $ 1,233 $ 109 $ 17,295 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, 196 securities with amortized cost of $2,803 million (fair value, $2,876 million) and 280 securities with amortized cost of $2,376 million (fair value, $2,421 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $1 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 compared to $1 million of gross unrealized gains as of December 31, 2002 on securities classified as held to maturity which are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 87 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. (1) As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 2,862 $ 336 $ 2 $ 3,196 $ 3,440 $ 399 $ 7 $ 3,832 2 Baa 8,205 950 9 9,146 7,499 769 32 8,236 Subtotal Investment Grade 11,067 1,286 11 12,342 10,939 1,168 39 12,068 3 Ba 1,615 139 9 1,745 1,886 123 16 1,993 4 B 440 31 3 468 563 18 15 566 5 C and lower 362 20 6 376 485 9 13 481 6 In or near default 140 4 23 121 138 1 5 134 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 2,557 194 41 2,710 3,072 151 49 3,174 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 13,624 $ 1,480 $ 52 $ 15,052 $ 14,011 $ 1,319 $ 88 $ 15,242 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, 110 securities with amortized cost of $1,157 million (fair value, $1,188 million) and 184 securities with amortized cost of $1,708 million (fair value, $1,766 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Amortized Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses Amortized Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses (in millions) Less than six months $ 51 $ 13 $ 242 $ 72 Six months or greater but less than nine months 4 1 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 7 2 Twelve months and greater Total $ 58 $ 15 $ 246 $ 73 The gross unrealized losses in 2003 were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing and asset backed securities sectors, as well as other corporate securities, while the gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in the utilities, retail and wholesale, and manufacturing sectors. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: As of December 31,2003 As of December 31,2002 Amortized Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses Amortized Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses (in millions) Less than six months $ 74 $ 24 $ 285 $ 84 Six months or greater but less than nine months 1 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months Twelve months and greater Total $ 74 $ 24 $ 286 $ 84 88 Table of Contents The gross unrealized losses in 2003 were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing, utilities, and transportation sectors while the gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in the manufacturing, utilities and finance sectors. Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or industry specific concerns. We classify public fixed maturity securities of issuers that have defaulted as securities not in good standing and all other public watch list assets as closely monitored. For private placements our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers conduct specific servicing tests on each investment on an ongoing basis to determine whether the investment is in compliance or should be placed on the watch list or assigned an early warning classification. We assign early warning classifications to those issuers that have failed a servicing test or experienced a minor covenant default, and we continue to monitor them for improvement or deterioration. In certain situations, the general account benefits from negotiated rate increases or fees resulting from a covenant breach. We assign closely monitored status to those investments that have been recently restructured or for which restructuring is a possibility due to substantial credit deterioration or material covenant defaults. We classify as not in good standing securities of issuers that are in more severe conditions, for example, bankruptcy or payment default. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either held to maturity or available for sale. Securities classified as held to maturity are those securities where we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost in our consolidated statement of financial position. Securities not classified as held to maturity are considered available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value. All held to maturity securities and all available for sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: whether the decline is substantial; the duration of the decline (generally greater than six months); the reasons for the decline in value (credit event or interest rate related); our ability and intent to hold our investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a write down to estimated fair value which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. Estimated fair values for fixed maturities, other than private placement securities, are based on quoted market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services. Estimated fair values for private placement fixed maturities are determined primarily by using a discounted cash flow model which considers the current market spreads between the U.S. Treasury yield curve and corporate bond yield curve, adjusted for type of issue, its current credit quality and its remaining average life. The estimated fair value of certain non performing private placement fixed maturities is based on managements estimates. Impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $266 million in 2003 and $385 million in 2002. Impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $123 million in 2003 and $302 million in 2002. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains above. 89 Table of Contents Commercial Loans Investment Mix We originate domestic commercial mortgages using dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through our various regional offices across the country. All loans are underwritten consistently to Company standards using our proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. Our loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. Consumer loans are loans extended by Gibraltar Life to individuals for financing purchases of consumer goods and services and are guaranteed by third party guarantor companies. Ongoing surveillance of the portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria. We place loans on early warning status in cases where we detect that the physical condition of the property, the financial situation of the borrower or tenant or other market factors could lead to a loss of principal or interest. We classify loans as closely monitored when there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that will lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial loans. As of both December 31, 2003 and 2002, we held approximately 11% of our general account investments in commercial loans. These percentages are gross of a $0.4 billion allowance for losses as of both December 31, 2003 and 2002. Our loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our commercial loan portfolio by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial loans by region: U.S. Regions: Pacific $ 2,694 22.1 % $ 2,607 36.9 % $ 2,595 21.4 % $ 2,671 37.8 % South Atlantic 1,654 13.5 1,392 19.7 1,650 13.6 1,397 19.8 Middle Atlantic 1,780 14.6 1,161 16.4 1,564 12.9 1,123 15.9 East North Central 849 7.0 513 7.3 853 7.0 442 6.3 Mountain 478 3.9 420 5.9 460 3.8 436 6.2 West South Central 558 4.6 308 4.4 574 4.7 322 4.6 West North Central 410 3.4 254 3.6 414 3.4 259 3.7 New England 323 2.6 280 4.0 321 2.6 281 3.9 East South Central 202 1.6 124 1.8 204 1.7 130 1.8 Subtotal U.S. 8,948 73.3 7,059 100.0 8,635 71.1 7,061 100.0 Asia 3,020 24.7 3,121 25.7 Other 242 2.0 384 3.2 Total Commercial Loans $ 12,210 100.0 % $ 7,059 100.0 % $ 12,140 100.0 % $ 7,061 100.0 % 90 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial loans by property type: Apartment complexes $ 2,909 23.8 % $ 1,733 24.5 % $ 2,736 22.5 % $ 1,677 23.8 % Office buildings 1,770 14.5 1,585 22.4 1,745 14.4 1,589 22.5 Retail stores 906 7.4 833 11.9 1,086 8.9 906 12.8 Industrial buildings 1,805 14.8 1,574 22.3 1,587 13.1 1,512 21.4 Residential properties 1,360 11.1 6 0.1 1,431 11.8 10 Agricultural properties 1,010 8.3 854 12.1 992 8.2 872 12.4 Other 290 2.4 474 6.7 305 2.5 495 7.1 Subtotal of collateralized loans 10,050 82.3 7,059 100.0 9,882 81.4 7,061 100.0 Uncollateralized loans 2,160 17.7 2,258 18.6 Total Commercial Loans $ 12,210 100.0 % $ 7,059 100.0 % $ 12,140 100.0 % $ 7,061 100.0 % Commercial Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Maturing in 2004 $ 1,643 13.4 % $ 511 7.2 % Maturing in 2005 1,144 9.4 332 4.7 Maturing in 2006 1,003 8.2 343 4.9 Maturing in 2007 1,241 10.2 565 8.0 Maturing in 2008 1,280 10.5 546 7.7 Maturing in 2009 1,578 12.9 779 11.0 Maturing in 2010 694 5.7 565 8.0 Maturing in 2011 372 3.0 590 8.4 Maturing in 2012 366 3.0 690 9.8 Maturing in 2013 and beyond 2,889 23.7 2,138 30.3 Total Commercial Loans $ 12,210 100.0 % $ 7,059 100.0 % Commercial Loan Quality We establish valuation allowances for loans that are determined to be non performing as a result of our loan review process. We define a non performing loan as a loan for which it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. Valuation allowances for a non performing loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or at the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. We record subsequent adjustments to our valuation allowances when appropriate. The following tables set forth the gross carrying value for commercial loans by loan classification as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Performing $ 11,709 $ 7,029 $ 11,693 $ 7,031 Delinquent, not in foreclosure 391 1 339 Delinquent, in foreclosure 23 5 13 5 Restructured 87 24 95 25 Total Commercial Loans $ 12,210 $ 7,059 $ 12,140 $ 7,061 91 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial loan portfolio as of the dates indicated: 2003 2002 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year $ 420 $ 74 $ 472 $ 75 Additions (release) of allowance for losses (15 ) (20 ) (30 ) (1 ) Charge offs, net of recoveries (6 ) (1 ) (40 ) Change in foreign exchange 37 18 Allowance, end of year $ 436 $ 53 $ 420 $ 74 Equity Securities Investment Mix Our equity securities consist principally of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, and to a lesser extent privately held companies. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 984 $ 97 $ 38 $ 1,043 $ 1,167 $ 54 $ 96 $ 1,125 Private equity 44 15 1 58 128 15 1 142 Total Equity $ 1,028 $ 112 $ 39 $ 1,101 $ 1,295 $ 69 $ 97 $ 1,267 The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 1,748 $ 574 $ 50 $ 2,272 $ 1,530 $ 117 $ 133 $ 1,514 Private equity 6 4 10 7 7 Total Equity $ 1,754 $ 578 $ 50 $ 2,282 $ 1,537 $ 117 $ 133 $ 1,521 Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: As of December 31, 2003 2002 Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses (in millions) Less than six months $ 11 $ 3 $ 33 $ 10 Six months or greater but less than nine months 5 2 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 2 1 Twelve months and greater 3 1 Total $ 14 $ 4 $ 40 $ 13 92 Table of Contents The gross unrealized losses in 2003 were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing and transportation sectors while the gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in the manufacturing, finance, and energy sectors. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: As of December 31, 2003 2002 Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses Cost GrossUnrealizedLosses (in millions) Less than six months $ 13 $ 4 $ 85 $ 27 Six months or greater but less than nine months 10 5 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months Twelve months and greater Total $ 13 $ 4 $ 95 $ 32 The gross unrealized losses in 2003 were primarily concentrated in the retail and wholesale, manufacturing, and services sectors while the gross unrealized losses in 2002 were concentrated in the manufacturing, services, and finance sectors. Impairments of Equity Securities We classify all of our equity securities as available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: whether the decline is substantial; the duration of the decline (generally greater than six months); the reasons for the decline in value (credit event or market fluctuation); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. Where we have determined that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a write down to estimated fair value which adjusts the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in fair value. Estimated fair values for publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services. Fair values for privately traded equity securities are established using valuation and discounted cash flow models that call for a substantial level of judgment from management. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $101 million in 2003 and $164 million in 2002. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $59 million in 2003 and $145 million in 2002. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains above. Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments are comprised as follows: As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness (in millions) Joint ventures and limited partnerships: Real estate related $ 84 $ 284 $ 363 $ 322 Non real estate related 482 758 471 647 Real estate held through direct ownership 1,160 21 1,124 28 Separate accounts 1,273 1,051 Other 703 (22 ) 868 78 Total other long term investments $ 3,702 $ 1,041 $ 3,877 $ 1,075 93 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Liquidity The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, to meet its obligations, including the payment of shareholder dividends, debt service, capital contributions to subsidiaries and operating expenses, are cash and short term investments, dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries. These sources of funds are complemented by Prudential Financials capital markets access. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial. As of December 31, 2003, Prudential Financial had cash and short term investments of approximately $1.7 billion, a decrease of $59 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2002. Principal sources and uses of cash and short term investments at Prudential Financial for the year ended December 31, 2003 were as follows: December 31, 2003 (in millions) Sources: Dividends and returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) $ 1,752 Proceeds from long and short term debt issuances(2) 1,907 Other 177 Total sources 3,836 Uses: Capital contributions to subsidiaries(3) (1,833 ) Share repurchases (1,009 ) Demutualization consideration(4) (442 ) Shareholder dividends (275 ) Other (336 ) Total uses (3,895 ) Net decrease in cash and short term investments $ (59 ) (1) Includes approximately $0.9 billion returned to Prudential Financial associated with the sale of our property and casualty insurance businesses and dividends/returns of capital of approximately $250 million from the Insurance division, approximately $375 million from the Investment division, and approximately $220 million from Corporate and other operations. (2) For a discussion of this activity see Financing Activities. (3) Includes the acquisition of American Skandia for approximately $1.2 billion and capital contributions of approximately $50 million for the Insurance division, approximately $460 million for the Investment division and $140 million for the International Insurance and Investments division. (4) Includes demutualization consideration paid to eligible policyholders and payments related to policy credit notes issued to Prudential Insurance. See Uses of Capital Demutualization Consideration for a discussion of this activity. Prudential Financial Capital Adequacy Financial Services Businesses Prudential Financial seeks to capitalize its businesses consistent with its risk, ratings objectives and regulatory requirements, all of which are considered when determining the aggregate capital requirements for the Company. Our ratings targets are AA/Aa/AA for S&P, Moodys and Fitch, respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best for our core domestic life insurance companies. Our debt rating targets are A for S&P, Moodys and Fitch and a for A.M. Best for Prudential Financial. The primary components of capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses, excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments, the contractual obligations of holders of our Equity Security Units to purchase Prudential Financial, Inc. Common Stock in November, 2004 and outstanding borrowings of the Financial Services Businesses that are ascribed to general corporate purposes as discussed below under Financing Activities. Based on these components, the capital position of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2003, was as follows: December 31, 2003 (in millions) Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments) $ 18,440 Equity Security Units 690 Debt used for general corporate purposes 1,966 Total capital $ 21,096 94 Table of Contents As shown in the table above, as of December 31, 2003, the Financial Services Businesses had approximately $21 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of the businesses in its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessment of these businesses and operations, we believe that the capital of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2003, exceeds the amount required to support its business risks. In addition, we believe this capital position, combined with our borrowing capacity, gives us substantial financial flexibility. The Risk Based Capital (RBC) ratio is the primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance, which encompasses businesses of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurances RBC ratio to a level consistent with our ratings targets for it. RBC is determined by statutory formulas that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance related risks associated with Prudential Insurances products, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of Prudential Insurances statutory capitalization. As of December 31, 2003, Prudential Insurances RBC ratio was above the level that we believe is required to meet our ratings targets. Prudential Insurances statutory capital as of December 31, 2003, included approximately $2.0 billion associated with the insurance policies in the Closed Block Business that we believe will not be necessary to cover the risk of the Closed Block Business. We have commenced a process of entering into reinsurance arrangements that will enable us to redeploy this capital. In addition, its statutory capital included $500 million to $750 million relating to our on going domestic life insurance business that we believe is not necessary to cover its risks due to changes to statutory minimum reserve requirements and reinsurance arrangements with respect to such business entered into in the second half of 2003. We expect to use $2.1 billion of this capital ($2.5 billion to $2.75 billion) to support the acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business. This will leave between $400 million and $650 million of capital beyond that which we believe is consistent with maintaining or improving our ratings. Similarly, we believe that our international insurance subsidiaries have capital of $500 million to $750 million in excess of the amounts needed to maintain or improve their ratings and that such capital (which generally is not distributable to Prudential Financial without regulatory approval) can be deployed in the growth of our businesses. We used a portion of the $500 million to $750 million to fund the acquisition of Hyundai. We also consider additional borrowing capacity in evaluating the capital position of the Financial Services Businesses. We measure this additional borrowing capacity by calculating the amount of additional borrowings the Financial Services Businesses could incur for general corporate purposes before we reach our Corporate Debt to Capital Ratio limit, which is currently 20%. We believe that a ratio of 20% or less is currently consistent with our ratings targets. As of December 31, 2003, this ratio was 10.0%, indicating that the Financial Services Businesses could have incurred $2.6 billion of additional borrowings for general corporate purposes as of that date without exceeding the limit. As of December 31, 2003, the overall outstanding borrowings of the Financial Services Businesses included approximately $1 billion the proceeds of which were temporarily invested in cash and short term investments or loans to affiliates. A reallocation of these proceeds to general corporate purposes would be considered in calculating the ratio of corporate debt to total capital and would reduce the $2.6 billion of additional borrowings available for general corporate purposes. Uses of Capital CIGNA Retirement Acquisition. As noted above, we plan to use $2.1 billion of the $2.5 billion to $2.75 billion of the capital described above to fund the acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business, which is expected to close during the first half of 2004. Share Repurchases. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company acquired 6.5 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of approximately $252 million. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we repurchased 29.1 million shares of Common Stock at a total cost of approximately $1.0 billion. On February 10, 2004, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which Prudential Financial is authorized to purchase up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock in 2004. The timing and amount of any repurchases under the authorization will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and such repurchases may be effected in the open market or through negotiated transactions. This stock repurchase program supersedes all previous repurchase programs. 95 Table of Contents Demutualization Consideration. During 2003, Prudential Financial paid out $142 million in demutualization consideration to eligible policyholders whom we have located since the time of demutualization and to governmental authorities in respect of other eligible policyholders we continue to be unable to locate. We remain obligated to disburse additional payments of $812 million to governmental authorities to the extent we are still unable to locate remaining eligible policyholders within a prescribed period of time specified by state escheat laws. These laws historically required remittance to the states in periods that typically ranged from three to seven years, but many states have enacted new legislation that reduces the escheatment time period and a number of other states are pursuing similar legislation. Liabilities relating to demutualization consideration payments were established at the time of demutualization in 2001. For an estimate of expected payments by period see Contractual Obligations. In addition, at the time of demutualization, Prudential Financial made a contribution of $1.050 billion to Prudential Insurance to cover demutualization consideration for eligible policyholders who received policy credits as a part of our demutualization. The contribution was financed with proceeds from the purchase by Prudential Insurance of a series of notes issued by Prudential Financial with market rates of interest and maturities ranging from nineteen months to three years. During 2003, notes totaling $300 million matured. Of the remaining notes, $600 million matures in 2004 and $150 million matures in 2005. Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries Our insurance and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends or distributions, all dividends or distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be declared or paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and revaluation of assets. As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus (deficit) was $1,557 million and $(420) million, respectively. There were applicable adjustments for unrealized investment gains of $624 million as of December 31, 2003 and no adjustments as of December 31, 2002. There was no revaluation of assets for purposes of the law referred to above regarding dividends and distributions in either year. Prudential Insurance also must notify the New Jersey insurance regulator of its intent to pay a dividend. If the dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, would exceed a specified statutory limit, Prudential Insurance must also obtain a non disapproval from the New Jersey insurance regulator. The current statutory limitation applicable to New Jersey life insurers generally is the greater of 10% of the prior calendar years statutory surplus or the prior calendar years statutory net gain from operations (excluding realized capital gains and losses). In addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and other circumstances. Prudential Insurance provided no dividends to Prudential Financial in 2003. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. Pursuant to Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain restrictions on Gibraltar Lifes ability to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. There are regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd (Prudential of Japan). We anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar and Prudential of Japan to pay dividends. The ability of our asset management subsidiaries, and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries, to pay dividends is unrestricted. Liquidity of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries General Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the needs of its operations. We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic and foreign insurance operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internally developed benchmarks, which take into account the characteristics of the asset portfolio. The results are affected substantially by the overall quality of our investments. 96 Table of Contents Our domestic insurance companies flexibility and liquidity are enhanced through access to a variety of instruments available for funding and or to manage short term cash flow mismatches, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial paper (issued through Prudential Funding, LLC, discussed below), medium and long term debt, common stock and other capital securities. Although our domestic insurance companies generate adequate cash flow to meet the needs of their normal operations, they may incur indebtedness from time to time to fund expansion, investment opportunities, temporary cash flow timing mismatches and the retirement of debt. Cash Flow from Operations The principal sources of liquidity of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance, annuities and guaranteed products operations. Principal uses of liquidity relate to benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contract holders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Uses of liquidity also include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and repayments in connection with financing activities. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions $ 18,869 43 % $ 17,589 42 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment 5,603 12 % 5,282 13 % At market value 919 2 % 692 2 % At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more 2,535 6 % 2,066 5 % Subtotal 27,926 63 % 25,629 62 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5% 16,202 37 % 15,748 38 % Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities 44,128 100 % $ 41,377 100 % Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products amounted to $7.8 billion and $6.1 billion for the years ending December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These withdrawals include contractually scheduled maturities of general account guaranteed investment contracts of $1,274 million and $1,064 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Since these contractual withdrawals, as well as the level of surrenders experienced, were consistent with our assumptions in asset liability management, the associated cash outflows did not have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Individual life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Annuity benefits under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Included in the table above are approximately 43% of annuity reserves and deposit fund liabilities that are not subject to early withdrawal as of December 31, 2003. The domestic insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these flows are the risk of default by debtors, our counterparties willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, and market volatility. We closely monitor and manage these risks through the credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. We believe that cash flows from our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations are adequate to satisfy liquidity requirements of these operations based on our current liability structure and considering a variety of reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors including future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels and policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. 97 Table of Contents Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, marketable fixed maturities and public equity securities. As of December 31, 2003, and 2002, the domestic insurance operations had $108.2 billion and $104.3 billion in liquid assets, respectively. As of December 31, 2003, $82.8 billion, or 87% of the fixed maturity securities held in our domestic insurance company General Account portfolios were rated investment grade. The remaining $12.3 billion, or 13% of fixed maturity investments were rated non investment grade. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity benchmark results in order to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy liquidity requirements of reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. For additional discussion of our investment portfolios, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments General Account Investments. Prudential Funding, LLC Prudential Funding, LLC (Prudential Funding), a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, continues to serve as a source of financing for Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries, as well as for other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial. Prudential Funding operates under a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth at all times. Prudential Funding borrows funds primarily through the direct issuance of commercial paper and private placement medium term notes. Prudential Fundings outstanding loans to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial are expected to decline over time as it transitions into a financing company primarily for Prudential Insurance and its remaining subsidiaries. We anticipate that our other subsidiaries will borrow directly from third parties and from Prudential Financial, as well as from Prudential Funding from time to time. The impact of Prudential Funding on liquidity is considered in the internal liquidity benchmarks of the domestic insurance operations. As of December 31, 2003, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $2.6 billion. Currently, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding have access to $1.6 billion of the lines and there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2003 or December 31, 2002. For a further discussion on lines of credit, see Financing Activity Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities. International Insurance Subsidiaries In our international insurance operations, liquidity is provided through ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity and the interest and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar to the discipline employed for our domestic insurance subsidiaries. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity benchmarks taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. Similar to our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, our international insurance subsidiaries had total insurance related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders) of $38.3 billion and $33.2 billion, respectively. Of that amount, $28.8 billion and $26.1 billion are associated with Gibraltar Life, our largest international insurance subsidiary. Concurrent with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, substantially all of its insurance liabilities were restructured, under a reorganization, to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges mitigate the extent, timing, and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers and apply to $25.8 billion and $24.6 billion of Gibraltar Lifes insurance related reserves as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. The following table sets forth the schedule (for each year ending March 31) of special surrender charges on policies that were in force at the time of the acquisition: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 15% 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% Policies issued by Gibraltar Life post acquisition are not subject to the above restructured policy surrender charge schedule. Policies issued post acquisition are subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value, less applicable surrender charges, currently 5% or more. Prudential of Japan, with $7.8 and $6.0 billion of insurance related liabilities as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, is our second largest international insurance subsidiary. Prudential of Japan did not 98 Table of Contents have a material amount of general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2003 or December 31, 2002. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Prudential of Japan do not have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, our international insurance subsidiaries had cash and short term investments of approximately $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, and fixed maturity investments classified as available for sale with fair values of $30.2 billion and $26.7 billion, respectively. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity in reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Prudential Securities Group Liquidity Prudential Securities Groups assets totaled $7.5 billion and $20.3 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. On July 1, 2003, we completed the combination of our retail brokerage business with Wachovia. As a result, we contributed $16.3 billion of assets and corresponding liabilities and equity in return for our investment in Wachovia Securities. Prudential Securities Group continues to own our investment in Wachovia Securities as well as the retained wholly owned businesses. The wholly owned businesses remaining in Prudential Securities Group continue to maintain sufficiently liquid balance sheets consisting mostly of cash and cash equivalents, segregated client assets, short term collateralized receivables from clients and broker dealers, and collateralized loans to clients. Prudential Securities Groups total capitalization, including equity, subordinated debt and long term debt, was $2.4 billion and $3.6 billion as December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. In October 2000, we announced that we would terminate our institutional fixed income activities that constituted the major portion of the debt capital markets operations of Prudential Securities Group. As of December 31, 2003, Prudential Securities Group had remaining assets amounting to approximately $700 million related to its institutional fixed income activities, compared to $900 million as of December 31, 2002. Financing Activities As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, total short and long term debt of the Company were $10.349 billion and $8.226 billion, respectively, including debt associated with the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Outstanding short and long term debt of the parent company amounted to $2.615 billion as of December 31, 2003, which amount is included in the total consolidated outstanding short and long term debt of the Company above. Prudential Financial had no short and long term debt as of December 31, 2002. Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital needs, as well as the capital needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, including that related to the Equity Security Units, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt $ 412 $ General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 1,492 Debt related to Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligations $ 2,615 $ (1) Long term debt as of December 31, 2003, includes debt related to the Prudential Financials equity security units, previously included in Guaranteed beneficial interest in Trust holding solely debentures of parent as of December 31, 2002. The $711 million includes $690 million corresponding to contractual obligations of Equity Security Units to purchase Prudential Financial Common Stock in November 2004. Prudential Financials short term debt includes commercial paper borrowings of $412 million. The weighted average interest rate on the commercial paper borrowings under this program was 1.21% for the full year ended December 31, 2003. To enhance financial flexibility, Prudential Financial filed a $5 billion shelf registration statement, effective April 25, 2003, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid 99 Table of Contents securities. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under this shelf program as of December 31, 2003 was $1.5 billion. In addition, upon the adoption of the revised guidance under FIN 46, $711 million in borrowings associated with our equity security units are now included in long term debt of Prudential Financial. The weighted average interest rate on Prudential Financials long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, was 3.76% for the year ended December 31, 2003. Effective April 25, 2003, we formally allocated $1.0 billion of an unsecured committed line of credit expiring in October 2006 to Prudential Financial. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility as of December 31, 2003 or December 31, 2002. For a discussion of our lines of credit, see Lines of Credit and Other Facilities below. Current capital markets activities principally consist of unsecured short term and long term debt borrowings issued at Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial and asset based or secured forms of financing. The secured financing arrangements include transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements, which we generally use to finance liquid securities in our short term spread portfolios, primarily within Prudential Insurance. The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt $ 4,738 $ 3,468 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 2,400 1,744 Surplus notes 691 690 Debt related to Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligation long term debt 3,802 2,434 Total general obligations 8,540 5,902 Limited and non recourse borrowing: Limited and non recourse short term debt 1 1 Limited and non recourse long term debt(2) 1,808 2,323 Total limited and non recourse borrowing 1,809 2,324 Total borrowings(3) 10,349 8,226 Total asset based financing(4) 17,037 29,127 Total borrowings and asset based financings $ 27,386 $ 37,353 (1) Long term debt as of December 31, 2003, includes debt related to the Prudential Financials equity security units, previously included in Guaranteed beneficial interest in Trust holding solely debentures of parent as of December 31, 2002. The $711 million includes $690 million corresponding to contractual obligations of Equity Security Units to purchase Prudential Financial Common Stock in November 2004. (2) As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, $1.75 billion of limited and non recourse debt is within the Closed Block Business. (3) Includes $ 0.5 billion and $1.3 billion related to Prudential Securities Group as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Does not include $1.1 billion of medium term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such notes, which are included in Policyholders account balances. (4) Includes $0.7 billion and $8.9 billion related to Prudential Securities Group as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Total general debt obligations increased by $2.6 billion, or 45%, from December 31, 2002, reflecting a $1.3 billion net increase in long term debt and a $1.3 billion net increase in short term debt. The increase in long term debt was driven primarily by the issuance of $1.5 billion of long term debt at Prudential Financial. In addition, upon the adoption of FIN 46, borrowings associated with our equity security units are now included in long term debt. These increases were partially offset by $400 million in a mortgage repayment and another $400 million in long term notes becoming current at Prudential Funding. The net increase in short term debt was driven by increased commercial paper issuance of $1.6 billion at Prudential Funding and $412 million at Prudential Financial. These increases were partially offset by long term debt maturities of approximately $300 million at Prudential Funding and a $300 million surplus note maturity at Prudential Insurance. In addition, direct third party borrowings of subsidiaries declined by $539 million, primarily due to reduced bank borrowings of $374 million at Prudential Securities Group. Total long term limited and non recourse debt declined by $515 million. This change was due to a decline of approximately $400 million resulting from the deconsolidation of certain entities upon adoption of FIN 46 and another $112 million decline related to the sale of warehoused investments whose debt previously was included in our consolidated financial position. 100 Table of Contents Asset based financing declined by $12.1 billion primarily due to an $8.2 billion decline at Prudential Securities Group. This was due to the combination of our retail brokerage operations with Wachovia. The decrease was also driven by the Companys adoption of SFAS 149, under which assets and liabilities associated with dollar roll activity are netted. This resulted in a decrease of approximately $2.0 billion in asset based financing outstanding at year end. In addition, asset based financing also declined by approximately $1.5 billion at Prudential Insurance. Prudential Fundings commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, were $2.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. In the second quarter of 2002, Prudential Financial issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings domestic commercial paper program. The weighted average interest rates on the commercial paper borrowings under this program were 1.13%, 1.26%, and 4.22% for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 respectively. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Fundings medium term note programs as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Fundings long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 1.87%, 3.21%, and 4.58% for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. We had outstanding surplus notes totaling $691 million and $990 million as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. These debt securities, which are included as surplus of Prudential Insurance on a statutory accounting basis, are subordinate to other Prudential Insurance borrowings and to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. Our total borrowings consist of amounts used for general corporate purposes, investment related debt, securities business related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Borrowings used for general corporate purposes include those used for cash flow timing mismatches at Prudential Financial, Prudential Financials investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries and amounts utilized for regulatory capital purposes. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our discontinued consumer banking business, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. Consolidated borrowings as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 include $1.75 billion of limited and non recourse debt within the Closed Block Business. 101 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions) General obligations: General corporate purposes $ 1,966 $ 1,596 Investment related 1,542 899 Securities business related 2,909 2,614 Specified other businesses 1,412 793 Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligations 8,540 5,902 Limited and non recourse debt 1,809 2,324 Total borrowings $ 10,349 $ 8,226 Long term debt $ 5,610 $ 4,757 Short term debt 4,739 3,469 Total borrowings $ 10,349 $ 8,226 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 8,599 $ 6,476 Borrowings of Closed Block Business 1,750 1,750 Total borrowings $ 10,349 $ 8,226 (1) Long term debt as of December 31, 2003, includes debt related to the Prudential Financials equity security units, previously included in Guaranteed beneficial interest in Trust holding solely debentures of parent as of December 31, 2002. The $711 million includes $690 million corresponding to contractual obligations of Equity Security Units to purchase Prudential Financial Common Stock in November 2004. Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2003, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $2.6 billion. Of this amount, $1.0 billion is under a facility that expires in May 2004, $0.1 billion is under a 364 day facility that expires in October 2004, and $1.5 billion is under a facility that expires in October 2006. Borrowings under the outstanding facilities will mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities. The facility expiring in May 2004 includes 28 financial institutions, many of which are also among the 27 financial institutions participating in the October 2006 facility. We use these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2003 or December 31, 2002. Effective April 25, 2003, we formally allocated $1.0 billion of the October 2006 facility to Prudential Financial. As a result, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding now have access to the remaining $1.5 billion in unsecured committed credit lines. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law. Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, was $10.9 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively. The ability of Prudential Financial to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on its maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, based on generally accepted accounting principles. Prudential Financials consolidated net worth totaled $21.3 billion and $21.3 billion as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. In addition, we have a credit facility expiring in December 2004 utilizing a third party sponsored, asset backed commercial paper conduit, under which we can borrow up to $500 million. This facility is supported in its entirety by unsecured committed lines of credit from many of the financial institutions included in our other facilities. Our actual ability to borrow under this facility depends on market conditions, and with respect to the lines of credit, Prudential Financial is subject to the same net worth requirement as with our other facilities. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from banks and other financial institutions. 102 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due for the specific contractual obligations outlined below as of December 31, 2003. Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in millions) Short term and long term debt(1) $ 10,349 $ 4,739 $ 832 $ 1,371 $ 3,407 Operating leases(2) 1,127 215 352 240 320 Policyholders account balances with contractual maturities(3) 9,254 3,218 2,657 1,294 2,085 Undistributed demutualization consideration(4) 812 271 494 47 Total, excluding pension and post retirement contributions 21,542 8,443 $ 4,335 $ 2,952 $ 5,812 Pension and other post retirement contributions(5) 39 39 Total $ 21,581 $ 8,482 (1) See Footnote 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) See Footnote 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) We offer various investment type products with contractually scheduled maturities through which customers deposit funds with us that typically provide for a rate of interest on the amount invested through the maturity of the contract. These obligations are backed by our general account assets, and we bear all of the investment and asset/liability management risk on these contracts. Examples of these types of products include GICs, funding agreements, and annuities without life contingencies. These liabilities are reflected within Policyholders account balances on our consolidated statements of financial position and amount to $7.717 billion as of December 31, 2003. The difference between our recorded liability and the total payment amount reflects $1.537 billion of future interest to be credited. (4) Prudential Financial remains obligated to disburse demutualization consideration for eligible policyholders that we have been unable to locate. To the extent we continue to be unable to locate these policyholders within a prescribed period of time specified by state escheat laws, typically three to seven years, the funds must be remitted to governmental authorities. Many states have enacted new legislation that reduces the escheatment time period and a number of other states are pursuing similar legislation. The amounts reflected in the table above are reflective of state escheat laws as of December 31, 2003. These liabilities are reflected within Other liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. (5) This amount represents our best estimate as of the date of this filing of our aggregated expected contributions to our non qualified pension and post retirement plans for 2004. We do not currently expect to make any contributions in 2004 to our qualified plans. We have not included any amounts subsequent to 2004, as these amounts are not readily determinable at this time. See Footnote 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the estimated 2004 contribution. We enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these agreements are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Contractual Commitments In connection with our commercial mortgage banking business, we originate commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2003, we had outstanding commercial mortgage loan commitments with borrowers of $1.282 billion. In certain of these transactions, we prearrange that we will sell the loan to an investor after we fund the loan. As of December 31, 2003, $559 million of our commitments to originate commercial mortgage loans are subject to such arrangements. In connection with our discontinued consumer banking business, we have commitments under home equity lines of credit and other lines of credit to lend up to specified limits to customers. It is anticipated that commitment amounts will only be partially drawn down based on overall customer usage patterns and, therefore, do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We evaluate each credit decision on such commitments at least annually and have the ability to cancel or suspend such lines at our option. The total commitments for home equity lines of credit and other lines of credit were $1.859 billion, of which $818 million remains available as of December 31, 2003. We also have other commitments, which primarily include commitments to fund investments. These commitments amounted to $2.964 billion as of December 31, 2003. 103 Table of Contents In connection with certain acquisitions, we agreed to pay additional consideration in future periods, based upon the attainment by the acquired entity of defined operating objectives. In accordance with GAAP, we do not accrue contingent consideration obligations prior to the attainment of the objectives. As of December 31, 2003, maximum potential future consideration pursuant to such arrangements, to be resolved over the following six years, is $269 million. Any such payments would result in increases in intangible assets, including goodwill. See Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees below for a discussion of financial guarantees. The following table summarizes the expirations of the contractual commitments discussed above as of December 31, 2003. Expirations by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 4 5Years More than 5 Years (in millions) Commitments to originate commercial mortgage loans $ 1,282 $ 941 $ 122 $ 219 $ Commitments for home equity and other lines of credit 818 40 173 14 591 Other commitments 2,964 1,453 1,068 335 108 Contingent consideration 269 142 89 38 Financial guarantees 916 196 222 90 408 Total $ 6,249 $ 2,630 $ 1,727 $ 747 $ 1,145 Ratings See Business Ratings for a summary of the Companys insurance claims paying ratings and credit ratings. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the production of new insurance and annuity business. These costs include commissions, costs to issue and underwrite the policies and certain variable field office expenses. The capitalized amounts are known as deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. Our total DAC, including the impact of unrealized investment gains and losses, amounted to $7.8 billion and $7.0 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 49% of our total DAC relates to our Individual Life and Annuities segment, approximately 35% relates to our International Insurance segment and approximately 16% relates to our Closed Block Business. If we were to experience a significant decrease in asset values or increase in lapse or surrender rates on policies for which we amortize DAC based on estimated gross margins or gross profits, such as participating and variable life insurance, we would expect acceleration of the write off of DAC for the affected blocks of policies. Additionally, for all policies on which we have outstanding DAC, we would be required to evaluate whether this experience called into question our ability to recover all or a portion of the DAC, and we would be required to write off some or all of the DAC if we concluded that we could not recover it. An accelerated write off of DAC would negatively affect our reported earnings and level of capital under generally accepted accounting principles. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees We provide financial guarantees incidental to other transactions. These credit related financial instruments have off balance sheet credit risk because only their origination fees, if any, and accruals for probable losses, if any, are recognized until the obligation under the instrument is fulfilled or expires. These instruments can extend for several years and expirations are not concentrated in any single period. We seek to control credit risk associated with these instruments by limiting credit, maintaining collateral where customary and appropriate and performing other monitoring procedures. 104 Table of Contents A number of guarantees provided by the Company relate to real estate investments, in which the unconsolidated investor has borrowed funds, and we have guaranteed their obligation to their lender. In some cases, the investor is an affiliate, and in other cases an unaffiliated investor purchases the real estate investment from us. We provide these guarantees to assist them in obtaining financing for the transaction on more beneficial terms. Our maximum potential exposure under these guarantees was $880 million as of December 31, 2003. Any payments that may become required of us under these guarantees would either first be reduced by proceeds received by the creditor on a sale of the assets, or would provide us with rights to obtain the assets. As of December 31, 2003 no amounts were accrued as a result of our assessment that it is unlikely that payments will be required. We are subject to other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements, including those related to business that have been sold. Some of these guarantees may extend far into the future and are subject to caps aggregating to $36 million. In other limited cases, the amount that can be claimed from us or the time in which these claims may be presented to us are not limited. As of December 31, 2003, we have accrued liabilities of $11 million associated with all other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements, which does not include liabilities we retained associated with sold businesses. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to assets. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of our core business. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate market risks. The market risks incurred and our strategies for managing these risks vary by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, consumer banking products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset management fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death and other benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to these death and other benefits under these contracts. See 105 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Result of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities for payments made under the guaranteed minimum death benefit provision of certain individual annuity contracts, which we do not believe add significantly to our overall market risk. We manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk adjusted equity market benchmarks. We measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and futures operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. As part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk (VaR) measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance, Annuities and Guaranteed Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Board of Directors. We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 74% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2003 and 70% as of December 31, 2002. With respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and investment type contracts and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel 106 Table of Contents shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. The following tables set forth the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. As of December 31, 2003 Notional Value ofDerivatives Estimated FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift Hypothetical Change in Fair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities: Available for sale $ 128,943 $ 120,886 $ (8,057 ) Held to maturity 3,084 2,980 (104 ) Commercial loans 21,037 20,140 (897 ) Mortgage securitization inventory 1,058 1,049 (9 ) Policy loans 9,706 9,123 (583 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 11,231 (379 ) (349 ) 30 Futures 2,148 1 (68 ) (69 ) Options 278 11 3 (8 ) Forwards 12,791 (13 ) (116 ) (103 ) Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt(1) (10,844 ) (10,421 ) 423 Investment contracts (41,450 ) (40,865 ) 585 Net estimated potential loss $ (8,792 ) As of December 31, 2002 Notional Value ofDerivatives Estimated Fair Value Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange inFair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities: Available for sale $ 125,463 $ 118,100 $ (7,363 ) Held to maturity 2,673 2,598 (75 ) Commercial loans 21,335 20,214 (1,121 ) Mortgage securitization inventory 708 703 (5 ) Policy loans 10,714 10,044 (670 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 8,306 (63 ) (8 ) 55 Futures 1,012 (31 ) 14 45 Options 233 8 3 (5 ) Forwards 7,584 (195 ) (194 ) 1 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (8,804 ) (8,447 ) 357 Investment contracts (38,765 ) (38,203 ) 562 Guaranteed beneficial interest in Trust holding solely debentures of Parent(1) (755 ) (730 ) 25 Net estimated potential loss $ (8,194 ) (1) As of December 31, 2003, Short term and long term debt includes long term debt related to our equity security units. As of December 31, 2002, our equity security units were included in Guaranteed beneficial interest in Trust holding solely debentures of Parent. 107 Table of Contents The tables above do not include approximately $104 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2003 and $99 billion as of December 31, 2002. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. The $598 million increase in the total estimated potential loss as of December 31, 2003 from December 31, 2002 resulted primarily from the increase in our portfolio of fixed maturities available for sale during 2003. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contract holders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of December 31, 2003 was $340 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $3.401 billion to $3.061 billion. Our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of December 31, 2002 was $281 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $2.807 billion to $2.526 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our general account and through our operations in foreign countries. In our international life insurance business, we generally invest in assets denominated in the same currencies as our insurance liabilities, which mitigates our foreign currency exchange rate risk for these operations. Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations arises primarily from purchased investments that are denominated or payable in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all foreign currency denominated fixed income investments supporting our U.S. operations into U.S. dollars, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps, in order to mitigate the risk that the fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our equity investments in unaffiliated foreign entities. Our operations in foreign countries create two additional sources of foreign currency risk. First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign branches and subsidiaries in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency flows based on our overall risk management strategy and loss limits. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations in Japan and Korea, of which our Japanese insurance operations are the most significant, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign branches and subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. We have chosen to partially hedge this exposure. We actively manage foreign currency exchange rate risk within specified limits at the consolidated level using VaR analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. We calculate this using a variance/covariance approach. 108 Table of Contents We calculate VaR estimates of exposure to loss from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates for one month time periods. Our estimated VaR as of December 31, 2003 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $24 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $811 million to $787 million. Our estimated VaR as of December 31, 2002 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $9 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $494 million to $485 million. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. Our estimated VaR for foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $59 million as of December 31, 2003 and $110 million as of December 31, 2002. Our average monthly Value at Risk for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured at the 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $18 million during 2003 and $15 million during 2002. Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, derivatives are used in our futures operations for trading purposes. Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and futures operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. We maintain trading inventories in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading inventories through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Most of our derivative transactions involve exchange listed contracts and are short term in duration. We act both as a broker, by selling exchange listed contracts, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and 109 Table of Contents the correlations of those factors. We regularly test our VaR model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the VaR model with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon. The VaR for our trading activities expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at the 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon was $2 million as of December 31, 2003 and $2 million as of December 31, 2002. The average daily VaR for our trading activities, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $2 million during 2003 and $4 million during 2002. The following table sets forth a breakdown of this VaR by risk component as follows: As ofDecember 31,2003 Average for2003 As ofDecember 31,2002 Average for2002 (in millions) Interest rate risk $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 Equity risk Commodities risk 1 Total(1) $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 (1) As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and during the years then ended, VaR from foreign currency exchange rate risk in our trading activities was immaterial. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models represent a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, you should not view VaR models as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. We use these models together with other risk management tools, including stress testing. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 110 Table of Contents 
 
