ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward Looking Statements included below the Table of Contents, Selected Financial Data and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are discussed below. Financial Services Businesses Our Financial Services Businesses consist of three operating divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Annuities and Group Insurance segments. The Investment division consists of our Asset Management, Financial Advisory, and Retirement segments. In the first quarter of 2004, we combined the former Other Asset Management segment with the former Investment Management segment to form the Asset Management segment. The International Insurance and Investments division consists of our International Insurance and International Investments segments. Our Corporate and Other operations include our real estate and relocation services business, as well as corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that have been or will be divested and businesses that we have placed in wind down status. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment, excluding financing costs associated with corporate debt. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of equity that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. We seek growth internally and through acquisitions, joint ventures or other forms of business combinations or investments. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. Closed Block Business In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our domestic in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. We selected the amount of Closed Block assets so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated 47 Table of Contents revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, holders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. Concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets that we must hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities, and certain other related assets and liabilities. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis; our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products; our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; our returns on invested assets, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; our ability to earn commissions and fees from the distribution and servicing of mutual funds, annuities, retirement products, and other investment products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the expense of providing such services; the performance of our investment in Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC, or Wachovia Securities; 48 Table of Contents the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation; and our ability to maintain our credit and financial strength ratings. In addition, factors such as regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange rates, securities market conditions and general economic conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. Executive Summary Prudential Financial, one of the largest financial services firms in the U.S., offers clients a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement related services and administration, asset management, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage and relocation services, and, through a joint venture, securities brokerage. We offer these products and services through one of the largest distribution networks in the financial services industry. Significant developments and events in 2004 reflect our continued efforts to redeploy capital effectively to seek enhanced returns. These developments included: The acquisition, on April 1, 2004, of the retirement business of CIGNA Corporation for cash consideration of $2.1 billion. The continuation of our share repurchase program. In 2004, we repurchased 32.5 million shares of Common Stock at a total cost of $1.5 billion and are authorized, under a new stock repurchase program authorized by Prudential Financials Board of Directors in November 2004, to repurchase up to an additional $1.5 billion of Common Stock during 2005. A 25% increase in our annual Common Stock dividend, to $0.625 per share. The acquisition, on February 27, 2004, of an 80% interest in Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd. and its subsidiary Hyundai Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd., which we refer to together as Hyundai, a Korean asset management firm, subsequently renamed Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. On February 19, 2004, A.M. Best Company upgraded the financial strength ratings of Prudential Insurance and our domestic insurance operations to A+ (Superior) from A (Excellent). On October 13, 2004, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. upgraded the financial strength rating of Prudential Insurance to Aa3 (Excellent) from A1 (Good). On November 30, 2004, Standard & Poors Rating Services upgraded the financial strength ratings of Prudential Insurance and our domestic insurance operations to AA (Very Strong) from A+ (Strong). These ratings are of concern to policyholders, agents and intermediaries. They are not directed toward stockholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. We analyze performance of the segments and Corporate and Other operations of the Financial Services Businesses using a measure called adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations for a definition of adjusted operating income and a discussion of its use as a measure of segment operating performance. 49 Table of Contents Shown below are the contributions of each segment to our adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments to income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses: Individual Life and Annuities $ 817 $ 619 $ 390 Group Insurance 174 169 155 Asset Management 266 208 184 Financial Advisory (245 ) (111 ) (43 ) Retirement 334 192 141 International Insurance 917 819 757 International Investments 86 (10 ) Corporate and Other 158 88 156 Items excluded from adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 82 (156 ) (872 ) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (58 ) (43 ) 6 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net (43 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (11 ) Sales practices remedies and costs (20 ) Divested businesses (105 ) (166 ) (15 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change for Financial Services Businesses 2,372 1,609 839 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 915 370 (757 ) Consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 3,287 $ 1,979 $ 82 Results for 2004 presented above reflect the following: Continued strong performance of our international insurance operations, including pre tax adjusted operating income of $402 million from our Gibraltar Life operations, and pre tax adjusted operating income of $515 million from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life. Significantly improved results of our Individual Life and Annuities segment reflecting a $33 million improvement from 2003 in our individual life business and a $165 million improvement from 2003 in our annuities business. Results of the annuity business we acquired from American Skandia contributed $242 million of pre tax adjusted operating income in 2004 and $167 million in 2003, which represented the initial eight months of results from that business following the May 2003 acquisition. Pre tax adjusted operating income from our original individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $90 million from 2003, as the business benefited from higher asset based fees and increased net interest spread on general account annuities. Improved results of our Retirement segment reflecting $128 million in pre tax adjusted operating income in 2004 from the retirement business acquired from CIGNA on April 1, 2004. Pre tax adjusted operating income from our original retirement business of $206 million in 2004, reflected improved results from our defined contribution business, partially offset by a decline in adjusted operating income from our guaranteed products business. Improved results of our Asset Management segment, which benefited from increased asset based fees, primarily as a result of increases in assets under management due to the acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business, market appreciation and positive net inflows. Continued strong results from our Group Insurance segment, which contributed pre tax adjusted operating income of $174 million in 2004. Improved results from our International Investments segment, which benefited from our February 2004 acquisition of an 80% stake in Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd., a Korean asset management firm. 50 Table of Contents Losses, on a pre tax adjusted operating income basis, of $245 million in 2004 from our Financial Advisory segment. Our 38% share of earnings from our Wachovia Securities joint venture, before transition costs, contributed pre tax adjusted operating income of $172 million in 2004. However, the segments results included transition costs of $194 million. The segments losses also included costs of $227 million for 2004 related to obligations we retained in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily retained litigation and regulatory matters. Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments for the Financial Services Businesses in 2004 included impairments and credit related losses of $143 million, down from $404 million in 2003. Results of the Closed Block Business for 2004 included realized investment gains of $715 million in 2004, compared to $426 million in 2003. Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Valuation of Investments As prescribed by GAAP, we present our investments classified as available for sale, including fixed maturity and equity securities, and our investments classified as trading, such as our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value in the statements of financial position. The fair values for our public fixed maturity securities and our public equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, for our investments in private securities such as private placement fixed maturity securities, which comprise 14% of our investments as of December 31, 2004, this information is not available. For these private fixed maturities, fair value is determined typically by using a discounted cash flow model, which considers current market credit spreads for publicly traded issues with similar terms by companies of comparable credit quality, and an additional spread component for the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. This additional spread component is determined based on surveys of various third party financial institutions. See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality for information regarding the credit quality of the private fixed maturity securities included in our general account. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Commissions and other income. In addition, investments classified as available for sale, as well as those classified as held to maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other than temporary. Factors we consider in determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary include: the extent (generally if greater than 20%) and duration (generally if greater than six months) of the decline; the reasons for the decline in value (credit event or interest rate related); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time that will allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer. When it is determined that a decline in value is other than temporary, the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. This corresponding charge is referred to as an impairment and is reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net in the statements of operations. The level of impairment losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when 51 Table of Contents economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains for a discussion of the effects of impairments on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Commercial loans, which comprise 11% of our investments as of December 31, 2004, are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses. This allowance includes a loan specific portion as well as a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. The loan specific portion is based on managements judgment as to ultimate collectibility of loan principal. The portfolio reserve is based on a number of factors, such as historical experience and portfolio diversification. Adjustments to the allowance are reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net, in our statements of operations. Similar to impairment losses discussed above, the allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments General Account Investments Commercial Loans Commercial Loan Quality for a discussion of the effects of the valuation allowance on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments General Account Investments for a discussion of our investment portfolio, including the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2004, related to the fixed maturity and equity securities of our general account, our policies and procedures regarding the identification of other than temporary declines in investment value, and the carrying value, credit quality, and allowance for losses related to the commercial loans of our general account. Policyholder Liabilities Future Policy Benefit Reserves We establish reserves for future policy benefits to or on behalf of policyholders in the same period in which the policy is issued. These reserves relate primarily to the traditional participating whole life policies of our Closed Block Business and the non participating whole life, term life, group disability insurance and group pension and structured settlement products of our Financial Services Businesses. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, which as of December 31, 2004, represented 48% of our total future policy benefit reserves, are determined using the net level premium method as prescribed by GAAP. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both the expected future benefit payments and the expected future premiums. The mortality assumptions we used were based on data from the standard industry experience studies that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies and the interest rates used are the contractually guaranteed interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policy. Gains or losses in our results of operations for each period resulting from deviations in actual experience compared to the experience assumed in establishing our reserves for this business are included in the determination of our annual dividends to these policyholders. Given our current level of policy dividends, we do not anticipate significant volatility in our results of operations in future periods as a result of these deviations. The future policy benefit reserves for our International Insurance segment and our domestic individual life business, which as of December 31, 2004, represented 35% of our total future policy benefit reserves combined, relate primarily to non participating whole life and term life products and are determined in accordance with GAAP as the present value of expected future benefits to or on behalf of policyholders plus the present value of future expenses less the present value of future net premiums. The expected future benefits and expenses are based on mortality, lapse, maintenance expense, and interest rate assumptions. Reserves for new business are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the policy is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our mortality assumptions are generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables, as applicable; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. We review 52 Table of Contents our mortality assumptions annually and conduct full actuarial studies every three years. Generally, we do not expect our mortality trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2004 represented 13% of our total future policy benefit reserves, relate primarily to our group pension and structured settlement products. These reserves are generally determined as the present value of expected future benefits and expenses based on mortality, retirement, maintenance expense, and interest rate assumptions. Reserves for new business are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the contract is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency testing by product group using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Our mortality and retirement assumptions are based on Company experience; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses Our liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses relates primarily to the group long term disability products of our Group Insurance segment. This liability represents our estimate of future expenses and disability claim payments as well as estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. We do not establish loss liabilities until a loss has occurred. As prescribed by GAAP, our liability is determined as the present value of future claim payments and expenses. Future claims payments are estimated using assumed mortality and claim termination factors and an assumed interest rate. The mortality and claim termination factors are based on standard industry tables and Company experience. Our interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Of these assumptions, our claim termination assumptions have historically had the most significant effects on our level of liability. We regularly review our claim termination assumptions compared to actual terminations and conduct full actuarial studies every two to three years. These studies review actual claim termination experience over a number of years with more weight placed on the actual experience in the more recent years. If actual experience results in a materially different assumption, we adjust our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses accordingly with a charge or credit to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect our actual claim termination experience to deviate significantly from the experience we assumed in determining our level of liability. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. These costs include primarily commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses. We amortize these deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, over the expected lives of the contracts, based on the level and timing of either gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums, depending on the type of contract. As of December 31, 2004, DAC in our Financial Services Businesses was $7.6 billion and DAC in our Closed Block Business was $1.2 billion. DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block Business is amortized over the expected lives of those contracts in proportion to gross margins. Gross margins consider premiums, investment returns, benefit claims, costs for policy administration, changes in reserves, and dividends to policyholders. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. Since many of the factors that affect gross margins are included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders, we do not anticipate significant volatility in our results of operations as a result of DAC adjustments, given our current level of dividends. DAC associated with the term life policies of our domestic individual life insurance business and the non participating whole life, term life and health policies of our international insurance businesses is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. We evaluate the recoverability of our DAC related to these policies as part of 53 Table of Contents our premium deficiency testing. If a premium deficiency exists, we reduce DAC by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than the DAC balance, we then increase the reserve for future policy benefits by the excess by means of a charge to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect significant short term deterioration in experience, and therefore do not expect significant writedowns of the related DAC. DAC associated with the variable and universal life policies of our domestic individual life insurance and international insurance businesses and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our individual annuities business is amortized over the expected life of these policies in proportion to gross profits. In calculating gross profits, we consider mortality, persistency, and other elements as well as rates of return on investments associated with these contracts. We regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of our actual gross profits and changes in our assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. Our evaluation of DAC related to variable annuity contracts considers expected gross profits that would be generated within a pre established reasonably possible range, or corridor, of future rate of return scenarios. Adjustments to DAC are made only when our long term view of investment returns considered in our estimates of future gross profits results in a DAC balance outside of the corridor. However, notwithstanding our corridor approach, we may determine that a revision of our expected gross profits and a related adjustment to our DAC is necessary if changes in additional factors, such as policyholder activity, suggest that our current view of expected gross profits may no longer represent our best estimate. For variable annuity contracts, DAC is more sensitive to the effects of changes in our estimates of gross profits due primarily to the significant portion of gross profits that is dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options, and the shorter average life of the contracts. This rate of return influences the fees we earn, costs we incur associated with minimum death benefit and other contractual guarantees specific to our variable annuity contracts, as well as other sources of profit. This is also true, to a lesser degree, for our variable life policies; however, the variable life policies derive a significant portion of their gross profits from margins in the cost of insurance charge. In evaluating the DAC for our domestic variable life insurance and annuity products, future rate of return assumptions are evaluated using a reversion to mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and project returns for the future period so that the assets grow at the expected rate of return for the entire period. If the projected future rate of return is greater than our maximum future rate of return, we use our maximum reasonable future rate of return. For variable annuities products, our expected rate of return is 8% per annum, which reflects an expected rate of return of 8.9% per annum for equity type assets. The future equity rate of return used varies by product, but was under 8.9% per annum for all of our variable annuity products for our evaluation of deferred policy acquisition costs as of December 31, 2004. To demonstrate the sensitivity of our variable annuity DAC balance relative to our future rate of return, increasing or decreasing our future rate of return by 100 basis points would have required us to consider adjustments, subject to our application of the corridor approach, to that DAC balance as follows. The information provided in the table below considers only the effect of changes in our future rate of return and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC. Increase/(Reduction)in DAC (in millions) Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 18 Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (18 ) For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our individual annuities business for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Impairment testing requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying 54 Table of Contents amount, including goodwill, and record an impairment charge if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The determination of a reporting units fair value is based on managements best estimate, which generally considers the units expected future earnings and market based earning multiples of peer companies. As of December 31, 2004, we have $976 million of goodwill reflected on our statements of financial position. During 2004, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $53 million relating to our Dryden Wealth Management business and, during 2002, we recorded goodwill impairments of $36 million relating primarily to our property and casualty business. There were no goodwill impairment charges during 2003. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed interest rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans. We determine our expected return on plan assets based upon the arithmetical average of prospective returns, which is based upon a risk free rate as of the measurement date adjusted by a risk premium that considers historical statistics and expected investment manager performance, for equity, debt and real estate markets applied on a weighted average basis to our asset portfolio. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other post retirement benefit plans. Our assumed long term rate of return for 2004 was 8.75% for our pension plan and 7.75% for our other post retirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of September 30, 2003, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 1 percentage point lower or 1 percentage point higher than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long term rate of return. For the year ended December 31, 2004 Increase/(decrease) inNet Periodic Pension Benefit Increase/(decrease) in Net Periodic OtherPostretirement Benefit Cost (in millions) Increase in expected rate of return by 1 percentage point $ 94 $ 10 Decrease in expected rate of return by 1 percentage point $ (94 ) $ (10 ) For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets for 2005 see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Corporate and Other Operations. In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, our net periodic pension benefit and our net periodic cost for other postretirement benefits may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans. Taxes on Income Our effective tax rate is based on expected income and statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times from the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a 55 Table of Contents deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized in our financial statements. The application of GAAP requires us to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce our deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of certain deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carry forward periods. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. Our accounting represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings and completion of tax audits could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate. To the extent our effective tax rate increases or decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change, consolidated income from continuing operations before extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change would have increased or declined by $33 million in 2004. The amount of income taxes paid by the Company is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions. We reserve for our best estimate of potential payments/settlements to be made to the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing jurisdictions for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We anticipate that the Internal Revenue Service will complete its examination of 1997 through 2001 during the first half of 2005. Although the results of these audits are not final, based on currently available information, we believe that the outcome will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Reserves for Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Accounting Policies Adopted Accounting for Stock Options Employee stock options issued during 2001 and 2002 are accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board, or APB, No. 25, Accounting to Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations, an allowable alternative method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No.123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Under APB No. 25, we did not recognize any stock based compensation expense for employee stock options as all employee stock options had an exercise price equal to the market value of our Common Stock at the date of grant. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our accounting for employee stock options to adopt the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended, prospectively for all new awards granted to employees on or after January 1, 2003. Under these provisions, the fair value of all employee stock options awarded on or after January 1, 2003, is included in the determination of net income, but not for options awarded prior thereto. Accordingly, the amount we include in the determination of net income is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since inception of the employee stock option plan. The fair value of employee stock options issued prior to January 1, 2003 was estimated using a Black Scholes option pricing model. For options issued on or after January 1, 2003, the fair value of each option was estimated using a binomial option pricing model. Both option pricing models consider the following assumptions in estimating fair value: dividend yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate, and expected life of the option. If we had recognized stock option expense for all employee stock options under the fair value based accounting method, net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2004, would have been reduced by $26 million or, $0.05 per share of Common Stock on a both basic and diluted basis. The net income of the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2004, would have been reduced by $1 million with no change in earnings per share of the Class B Stock. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income would have been reduced by $35 56 Table of Contents million or $0.06 and $0.07 per share of Common Stock on a basic and diluted basis, respectively. The net income of the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2003, would have been reduced by $1 million with no change in earnings per share of the Class B Stock. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net income and basic and diluted earnings per share of Common Stock would have been reduced by $30 million and $0.05, respectively. Accounting for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the cumulative effect of accounting change from the adoption of Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts or, SOP 03 1, which became effective on January 1, 2004. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the recently issued final standard on accounting for share based payments, FASB Statement No. 123R (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which we will implement effective July 1, 2005. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes income from continuing operations before extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as well as other components comprising net income. Year endedDecember 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Financial Services Businesses by segment: Individual Life and Annuities $ 804 $ 565 $ 243 Group Insurance 217 117 26 Total Insurance Division 1,021 682 269 Asset Management 274 213 248 Financial Advisory (245 ) (111 ) (43 ) Retirement 345 196 (235 ) Total Investment Division 374 298 (30 ) International Insurance 920 805 569 International Investments 38 (62 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division 958 743 569 Corporate and Other 19 (114 ) 31 Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change for Financial Services Businesses 2,372 1,609 839 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 915 370 (757 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change 3,287 1,979 82 Income tax expense (benefit) 955 657 (188 ) Income from continuing operations before extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change 2,332 1,322 270 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (18 ) (58 ) (76 ) Extraordinary gain on acquisition, net of taxes 21 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes (79 ) Net income $ 2,256 $ 1,264 $ 194 57 Table of Contents In managing our business, we analyze operating performance separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments operating performance using adjusted operating income. Results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted operating income does not equate to income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, is our measure of segment performance. Adjusted operating income is calculated for the segments of the Financial Services Businesses by adjusting each segments income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change to exclude the following items: realized investment gains net of losses, except as indicated below, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; life insurance sales practices remedies and costs; and the contribution to income/loss of divested businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under GAAP. We include in adjusted operating income the portion of our realized investment gains and losses on derivatives that arises from the termination of contracts used to hedge our foreign currency earnings in the same period that the expected earnings emerge. Similarly, we include in adjusted operating income the portion of our realized gains and losses on derivatives used to manage interest rate and currency exposure on asset and liability mismatches that represents current period yield adjustments for these assets and liabilities. The contributions to income/loss of wind down businesses that we have not divested remain in adjusted operating income. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes net realized investment gains and losses, other than those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments. A significant element of realized investment losses is impairments and losses from sales of credit impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles and can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. Similarly, adjusted operating income excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values will ultimately inure to the contractholders. Adjusted operating income also excludes life insurance sales practices remedies and costs relating to the settlement of individual life insurance sales practices issues for the period from 1982 through 1995 because they relate to a substantial and identifiable non recurring event. Adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses because they are not relevant to understanding our ongoing operating results. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results. 58 Table of Contents Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life and Annuities segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues: Individual Life $ 2,125 $ 1,936 $ 1,952 Individual Annuities 1,578 1,146 744 3,703 3,082 2,696 Benefits and expenses: Individual Life 1,735 1,579 1,520 Individual Annuities 1,151 884 786 2,886 2,463 2,306 Adjusted operating income: Individual Life 390 357 432 Individual Annuities 427 262 (42 ) 817 619 390 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 21 (41 ) (162 ) Related charges(1)(2) (34 ) (13 ) 15 Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 804 $ 565 $ 243 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. On May 1, 2003, we acquired Skandia U.S. Inc., which included American Skandia, Inc., for a total purchase price of $1.184 billion. Beginning May 1, 2003, the results of American Skandia have been included in our consolidated results and are included as a component of our annuity business discussed below. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life business adjusted operating income increased $33 million, from $357 million in 2003 to $390 million in 2004. The increase reflected more favorable claims experience, net of reinsurance, in 2004. However, results for 2004 reflect a lower contribution from investment income after investment related expenses in comparison to 2003, due to a decrease in the level of capital required to support the business. The decrease in the level of capital required to support the business reflected changes in statutory reserving requirements for certain products and certain reinsurance arrangements we initiated. Results for 2004 also include a decline in recovery of costs of our agency distribution system associated with the distribution of property and casualty insurance products, due to our sale of the property and casualty business in late 2003. 59 Table of Contents Results of the segments individual annuity business for 2004 included adjusted operating income of $242 million from the operations of American Skandia, compared to $167 million in 2003, which included the results of these operations for only the last eight months of the year. Adjusted operating income of $242 million for 2004 consisted of revenues of $741 million and total benefits and expenses of $499 million. American Skandias revenues in 2004 consisted primarily of policy charges and fee income of $413 million, asset management and service fees of $212 million and net investment income of $91 million. Benefits and expenses consisted primarily of general and administrative expenses of $297 million, including $30 million from the amortization of the value of business acquired asset established when the company was acquired, interest credited to policyholder account balances of $80 million and policyholder benefits, including related change in reserves, of $93 million. Adjusted operating income of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $90 million, from $95 million in 2003 to $185 million in 2004. The increase in adjusted operating income came primarily from improved net interest spread on our general account annuities reflecting improved investment yields, reductions of credited interest rates effective as of January 1, 2004, as well as higher asset balances, and higher fees resulting from greater variable annuity account values. Increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs reflecting the higher level of gross profits partially offset the foregoing factors. Adjusted operating income for 2004 and 2003 included reductions in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of $44 million and $39 million, respectively, due to our increased estimate of future gross profits on variable annuities reflecting market value increases in underlying assets as well as continued favorable mortality and lapse experience, which amount for 2003 was largely offset by a $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life business adjusted operating income decreased $75 million, from $432 million in 2002 to $357 million in 2003. The decline was primarily the result of claims experience, net of reinsurance, less favorable than in the prior year, partially offset by the favorable impact of increases in the market value of variable life insurance assets. Results of the segments individual annuity business for 2003 included adjusted operating income of $167 million from the initial eight months of our ownership of the operations of American Skandia, which consisted of revenues of $416 million and total benefits and expenses of $249 million. American Skandias revenues consisted primarily of policy charges and fee income of $242 million and asset management and service fees of $126 million. Benefits and expenses consisted primarily of general and administrative expenses of $200 million, including $38 million of amortization of the value of business acquired asset established when the company was acquired and $35 million of guaranteed minimum death benefit payments. Adjusted operating income of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $137 million, from a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $42 million in 2002 to income of $95 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income for 2003 included a $39 million reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs due to our increased estimate of future gross profits on variable annuities reflecting market value increases in underlying assets. This benefit to adjusted operating income was largely offset by a $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities. Results for 2002 included charges totaling $137 million for additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, reflecting our lower estimates of future gross profits resulting from greater expected costs from minimum death benefit guarantees and lower expected fees under individual annuity contracts due to declines in asset values. Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life insurance business reported revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, of $2.125 billion in 2004, compared to $1.936 billion in 2003. Commissions and other income increased $141 million, primarily reflecting an increase in revenue from the distribution of property and casualty insurance products by our agents, which was more than offset by a related increase in operating expenses, including agent commissions. Premiums increased $23 million, primarily due to increased premiums on term life insurance reflecting growth of our in force block of term insurance products. Revenues from the segments individual annuity business increased $432 million, from $1.146 billion in 2003 to $1.578 billion in 2004, which included increased revenues of $325 million from American Skandia. 60 Table of Contents Revenues of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $107 million, from $730 million in 2003 to $837 million in 2004, due primarily to a $71 million increase in net investment income, reflecting a higher level of invested assets, as well as increased yields. In addition, policy charges and fees increased $36 million, reflecting an increase in the average market value of variable annuity customer accounts. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The segments individual life insurance business revenues decreased $16 million, from $1.952 billion in 2002 to $1.936 billion 2003. Premiums decreased $43 million, from $395 million in 2002 to $352 million in 2003, reflecting approximately $80 million in decreased premiums on term insurance we issued under policy provisions to customers who previously had lapsing variable life insurance policies with us, partially offset by increased sales and growth of our in force block of term insurance products. Revenues from the segments individual annuity business increased $402 million, from $744 million in 2002 to $1.146 billion in 2003, which included revenues of $416 million from American Skandia. Revenues of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, declined $14 million, from $744 million in 2002 to $730 million in 2003, due primarily to an $18 million decrease in policy charges and fees as, despite a year to year increase, the average market value of variable annuity customer accounts declined in 2003 from 2002. Benefits and Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, of the segments individual life insurance business increased $156 million, from $1.579 billion in 2003 to $1.735 billion in 2004. The increase reflects a $176 million increase in operating expenses, including costs related to the distribution of property and casualty insurance products discussed above. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $79 million from 2003 to 2004, reflecting a lower level of amortization in the prior year due to the strong equity market performance and less favorable mortality experience in 2003. Partially offsetting these items was a decline in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves of $130 million, from $773 million in 2003 to $643 million in 2004, primarily due to claims experience, net of reinsurance, being at a more favorable level than in the prior year. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual annuity business increased $267 million, from $884 million in 2003 to $1.151 billion in 2004, which included increased benefits and expenses of $250 million related to American Skandia. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, increased $17 million, from $635 million in 2003 to $652 million in 2004. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $52 million, primarily as a result of a higher level of gross profits in the current period. Partially offsetting this was the impact of a $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities in 2003. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual life insurance business increased $59 million, from $1.520 billion in 2002 to $1.579 billion in 2003. The increase reflects a $97 million increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, from $676 million in 2002 to $773 million in 2003, as well as an increase in employee termination and related costs. The increase in policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves came primarily from claims experience, net of reinsurance, less favorable than the prior year, partially offset by decreased policy reserves on term insurance, corresponding to the decreased premiums discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, due primarily to less favorable claims experience and lower policy surrenders. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual annuity business increased $98 million, from $786 million in 2002 to $884 million in 2003, which included $249 million of expenses related to American Skandia. Benefits and expenses of the segments individual annuity business, excluding American Skandia, decreased $151 million, from $786 million in 2002 to $635 million in 2003. Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs declined $178 million from 2002 to 2003, primarily as a result of the changes in our estimated future gross profits as discussed above. Partially offsetting this was a $28 million increase in policyholder benefits and related change in reserves, reflecting the $36 million charge to strengthen reserves for our periodic income annuities discussed above, which resulted from refinements in our calculation of these reserves. Benefits and expenses of our individual annuity business include $69 million of guaranteed minimum death benefits in 2003 of which $35 million is associated with the American Skandia business. 61 Table of Contents Sales Results and Account Values The following table sets forth individual life insurance business sales, as measured by scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash received basis, and changes in account value for the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. Sales of the individual life insurance business do not correspond to revenues under GAAP. They are, however, a relevant measure of business activity. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze new sales on this basis because it measures the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income as well as current sales. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value, and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Life insurance sales(1): Excluding corporate owned life insurance: Variable life $ 97 $ 99 $ 145 Universal life 178 132 86 Term life 116 110 89 Total excluding corporate owned life insurance 391 341 320 Corporate owned life insurance 14 21 122 Total $ 405 $ 362 $ 442 Life Insurance sales by distribution channel(1): Prudential Agents(2) $ 236 $ 230 $ 238 Third party(2) 155 111 82 Corporate owned life insurance 14 21 122 Total $ 405 $ 362 $ 442 Variable Annuities(3): Beginning total account value $ 43,949 $ 15,338 $ 18,689 Sales 5,806 4,418 1,395 Surrenders and withdrawals (5,224 ) (3,716 ) (2,031 ) Net sales (redemptions) 582 702 (636 ) Benefit payments (613 ) (449 ) (273 ) Net flows (31 ) 253 (909 ) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity 4,091 6,329 (2,255 ) Policy charges (591 ) (402 ) (187 ) Acquisition of American Skandia 22,431 Ending total account value $ 47,418 $ 43,949 $ 15,338 Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value $ 3,514 $ 3,396 $ 2,975 Sales 532 247 605 Surrenders and withdrawals (191 ) (141 ) (143 ) Net sales 341 106 462 Benefit payments (163 ) (162 ) (145 ) Net flows 178 (56 ) 317 Interest credited and other activity 191 178 107 Policy charges (4 ) (4 ) (3 ) Ending total account value $ 3,879 $ 3,514 $ 3,396 (1) Scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash received basis. (2) Excluding corporate owned life insurance. (3) Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments through defined contribution plan products are included with such products. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, increased $50 million from 2003 to 2004. Sales of our universal life products, which were updated as to features and pricing in June 2003, increased $46 million. 62 Table of Contents Sales by Prudential Agents increased $6 million from 2003 to 2004, reflecting an increase in agent productivity that more than offset a decline in the average number of agents from approximately 4,300 in 2003 to approximately 4,000 in 2004. Sales by the third party distribution channel, excluding corporate owned life insurance, increased $44 million from 2003 to 2004, reflecting increased universal and term life sales through this distribution channel. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $51.3 billion as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $3.8 billion from December 31, 2003. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities, as well as net sales of $923 million. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $1.4 billion, from $4.4 billion in 2003 to $5.8 billion in 2004, reflecting the inclusion of variable annuity sales from American Skandia for only the last eight months of 2003. Fixed annuities gross sales increased by $285 million from 2003 to 2004, reflecting a new product introduced in 2004. Surrenders and withdrawals increased $1.6 billion from 2003 to 2004, reflecting the additional period of activity from American Skandia, as well as the impact of higher average account values. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, increased $21 million from 2002 to 2003. Sales of our universal life and term life products, both of which were updated as to features and pricing in 2003, increased $46 million and $21 million, respectively. These increases were offset by a decline of $46 million in variable life sales, which were negatively affected by customer response to prolonged volatile equity market conditions. Sales of corporate owned life insurance, substantially all of which is sold by the third party distribution channel, declined by $101 million. The decline reflects primarily a single large sale in 2002. Sales from Prudential Agents decreased slightly from 2002 to 2003, reflecting a decline in the average number of agents for the period from approximately 4,500 in 2002 to approximately 4,300 in 2003 due to selective hiring of new agents and closures of several offices to promote the cost effectiveness of the Prudential Agent distribution channel as well as some attrition of agents resulting from the Companys sale of its property and casualty insurance businesses in 2003. Sales by the third party distribution channel, other than corporate owned life insurance, increased $29 million from 2002 to 2003, reflecting increased universal and term life sales through this channel. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $47.5 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $28.7 billion, which included $22.4 billion from the May 1, 2003 acquisition of American Skandia. The remainder of the increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities as well as net sales of $808 million. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $3.0 billion, from $1.4 billion for 2002 to $4.4 billion for 2003, primarily due to $2.5 billion in variable annuity sales contributed by American Skandia from the date of acquisition. Excluding American Skandia, variable annuity gross sales increased by $528 million, driven by improving market conditions, product enhancements, and continued expansion in third party distribution. Sales of fixed annuities declined year over year by $358 million, due primarily to managements decision to lower crediting rates in the current interest rate environment. Surrenders and withdrawals increased $1.7 billion in 2003 from 2002, including $2.1 billion from American Skandia, reflecting the larger base of business. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the individual life insurance businesss policy surrender experience for variable and universal life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 633 $ 653 $ 692 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders account balances, and separate account balances 3.3 % 3.8 % 4.2 % 63 Table of Contents 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $20 million, from $653 million in 2003 to $633 million in 2004. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances decreased from 2003 to 2004, reflecting a lower level of surrenders in 2004 associated with increases in variable life insurance account values due to market performance. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $39 million, from $692 million in 2002 to $653 million in 2003. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances decreased from 2002 to 2003, reflecting a higher level of lapses in 2002 associated with declines in variable life insurance account values due to adverse equity market conditions. Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 3,867 $ 3,690 $ 3,586 Benefits and expenses 3,693 3,521 3,431 Adjusted operating income 174 169 155 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 43 (52 ) (129 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 217 $ 117 $ 26 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $5 million, from $169 million in 2003 to $174 million in 2004. Adjusted operating income for 2003 included a net favorable effect of $8 million from refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features and estimates of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income increased $13 million primarily due to more favorable mortality experience in our group life insurance business which was partially offset by less favorable claims experience in our group disability business and costs related to legal and regulatory matters that were incurred during 2004. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $14 million, from $155 in 2002 to $169 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income for 2003 included a net favorable effect of $8 million from refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features and estimates of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above, while 2002 benefited $19 million from refinements in reserves relating to our group long term disability product. Excluding the $11 million net negative impact of these refinements, adjusted operating income increased $25 million in 2003 from 2002, reflecting more favorable group life benefits experience in 2003 and a greater contribution from investment results. Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $177 million, from $3.690 billion in 2003 to $3.867 billion in 2004. Group life insurance premiums increased by $73 million to $2.249 billion, primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which improved slightly from 93% in 2003 to 94% in 2004. Group disability 64 Table of Contents premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $46 million to $676 million, also reflecting growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which improved slightly from 85% in 2003 to 86% in 2004. The increase in premiums also reflects the negative effect in 2003 of a $9 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above. Policy charges and fee income increased by $80 million, which includes the negative effect in 2003 of a $17 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above. Excluding the effect of this refinement, policy charges and fee income increased by $63 million, primarily reflecting higher charges and fees on experienced rated contracts sold to employers for funding of employee benefit programs and retirement arrangements. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in net investment income of $24 million, due primarily to a decrease in income from policyholder loans. The decrease in income from policyholder loans reflects reductions in the balances of these loans, which also results in a corresponding decline in interest credited to policyholders account balances. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $104 million, from $3.586 billion in 2002 to $3.690 billion in 2003. Group life insurance premiums increased by $81 million to $2.176 billion primarily due to growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which declined slightly from 95% in 2002 to 93% in 2003. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $56 million to $630 million reflecting the growth in business in force resulting from new sales and continued strong persistency, which decreased slightly from 87% in 2002 to 85% in 2003. These increases in premiums were partially offset by a $9 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above. Policy charges and fee income declined by $42 million primarily as a result of a $17 million increase in our estimate of amounts due policyholders on experience rated cases, as discussed above, and lower fees on experience rated contracts sold to employers for funding of employee benefit programs and retirement arrangements. Although net investment income was relatively unchanged in 2003 from 2002, the portion of this income from policyholder loans declined, with a corresponding decline in interest credited to policyholders account balances, which resulted in a greater contribution from investment results to adjusted operating income in 2003, as the remaining base of invested assets increased. Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Benefits ratio(1): Group life 88.4 % 90.9 % 91.7 % Group disability 94.6 92.4 87.9 Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life 10.9 9.7 10.0 Group disability 22.1 22.5 22.0 (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $172 million, from $3.521 billion in 2003 to $3.693 billion in 2004. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $133 million in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, which reflects a $34 million reduction in benefits in 2003 due to refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features, as discussed above, the unfavorable effect of an increase in the group disability benefits ratio and the growth of business in force. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses was an increase of $63 million in operating expenses as a result of growth in the business, premium taxes associated with the increased revenues related to contracts for funding of employee benefit and retirement programs, and costs related to legal and regulatory matters that were incurred during 2004. Partially offsetting the increases in benefits and expenses was a $31 million decrease in interest credited to policyholders account balances, primarily as a result of the decrease in outstanding policyholder loans discussed above. 65 Table of Contents The group life benefits ratio for 2004 decreased 2.5 percentage points from 2003, primarily reflecting more favorable claims experience. The group disability benefits ratio increased by 2.2 percentage points from 2003 to 2004 due to less favorable claims experience in our group disability business, primarily due to a decrease in net claim resolutions on our long term disability products. In the later part of 2004, we expanded our claims resolution capacity for these products. The group life administrative operating expense ratio increased from 2003 to 2004 primarily due to the increases in premium taxes and legal and regulatory costs discussed above. The group disability administrative operating expense decreased slightly from 2003 to 2004. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $90 million, from $3.431 billion in 2002 to $3.521 billion in 2003. Benefits in 2003 were reduced $34 million as a result of the refinements in group life reserves for waiver of premium features discussed above, while 2002 benefited $19 million from reduction in benefits due to the refinement in reserves relating to our group long term disability product. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased $105 million. This increase resulted principally from an increase in policyholders benefits, including change in policy reserves, reflecting the growth of business in force. The group life benefits ratio for 2003 improved 0.8 percentage points from 2002 reflecting lower claims incidence. The group disability benefits ratio increased by 4.5 percentage points, of which 3.2 percentage points resulted from the reserve refinement in 2002 discussed above. The remaining 1.3 percentage point increase in the group disability benefits ratio is primarily due to a decrease in net claim resolutions on our long term disability products, partially offset by favorable morbidity experience on our other disability products. The group life and disability administrative operating expense ratios remained relatively unchanged from 2002 to 2003. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments new annualized premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) New annualized premiums(1): Group life $ 237 $ 225 $ 269 Group disability(2) 161 144 160 Total $ 398 $ 369 $ 429 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts, and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. (2) Includes long term care products. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums increased $29 million, or 8%, from 2003 to 2004. Group life sales increased in 2004 primarily due to an increase in sales in the large case market. Group disability sales increased in 2004 primarily due to additional sales to existing customers, mostly in the large case market. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Total new annualized premiums decreased $60 million, or 14%, from 2002 to 2003. Group life sales decreased in 2003 due primarily to a smaller contribution from large case sales in 2003 as well as the expected slowing of our sales due to the implementation of pricing adjustments in 2002. Group disability sales decreased in 2003, primarily reflecting one large sale in the fourth quarter of 2002. 66 Table of Contents Investment Division Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,464 $ 1,360 $ 1,325 Expenses 1,198 1,152 1,141 Adjusted operating income 266 208 184 Realized investment gains, net(1) 8 5 64 Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 274 $ 213 $ 248 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $58 million, from $208 million in 2003 to $266 million in 2004, which includes $31 million from the management of assets associated with the retirement business acquired from CIGNA. Results for 2004 benefited from higher asset based fees in our investment management and advisory services reflecting market appreciation and positive net inflows, as well as improved results in our other asset management activities. Partially offsetting these items were charges in 2004 totaling $28 million related to declines in value of intangible assets, expenses incurred in exiting an operating facility and termination of activities related to certain of our international investment management operations. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $24 million, from $184 million in 2002 to $208 million in 2003. The increase reflected lower expenses, excluding the impact of recent acquisitions, and higher asset based fees in our investment management and advisory operations, which were partially offset by a decline in retained fees as a result of the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia. Revenues The following tables set forth the Asset Management segments revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under Operating Results, by source and assets under management for the periods indicated. In managing our business we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to GAAP assets, because our primary sources of revenues are fees based on assets under management. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Revenues by source: Investment management and advisory services: Retail customers(1) $ 219 $ 187 $ 184 Institutional customers 442 372 335 General account 234 219 221 Sub total 895 778 740 Mutual fund and other segment revenues(2) 569 582 585 Total revenues $ 1,464 $ 1,360 $ 1,325 67 Table of Contents (1) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Represents mutual fund and other segment revenues other than asset management fees paid to affiliates, which are included in the appropriate categories above. December 31,2004 December 31, 2003 (in billions) Assets under management (at fair market value): Retail customers(1) $ 66.0 $ 81.2 Institutional customers(2) 119.2 94.8 General account(3) 152.7 127.8 Total investment management and advisory services $ 337.9 $ 303.8 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds, including investments in our mutual funds through wrap fee products, and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. Amount as of December 31, 2003 includes money market mutual fund balances of $17.8 billion which, as of December 31, 2004, were essentially eliminated due to the replacement of these funds with other investment alternatives for brokerage clients of Wachovia Securities. (2) Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. Amount as of December 31, 2004 includes assets associated with our acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business on April 1, 2004, which amounted to $9.0 billion as of that date. (3) Amount as of December 31, 2004 includes assets associated with our acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business on April 1, 2004, which amounted to $18.7 billion as of that date. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $104 million, from $1.360 billion in 2003 to $1.464 billion in 2004, due primarily to higher fees from the management of institutional and retail customer assets as a result of increased asset values primarily from market appreciation, assets associated with the retirement business acquired from CIGNA, an increase in transaction and performance based incentive fees related to real estate assets under management and increased revenues related to program services for certain mutual fund wrap and separately managed platforms of Wachovia Securities. Reduced income from our commercial mortgage operations, reflecting lower production volume and composition of originations, partially offset this increase. Revenues include asset management fees of $28 million and $79 million, for 2004 and 2003, respectively, associated with certain money market mutual fund balances of brokerage clients of Wachovia Securities. These balances were essentially eliminated as of September 30, 2004 due to the replacement of those funds with other investment alternatives for those brokerage clients. The resulting reduction in asset management fees has been offset by payments from Wachovia under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia. The agreement extends for ten years after termination of the joint venture with Wachovia. The revenue from Wachovia under this agreement was $35 million in 2004. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $35 million, from $1.325 billion in 2002 to $1.360 billion in 2003. The increase came primarily from the management of institutional customer assets inclusive of revenues associated with an international real estate asset manager that we acquired at the end of 2002. A decline in mutual fund revenues from lower average account balances on which our fees are based was partially offset by the inclusion of revenues of the mutual fund business of American Skandia, commencing May 1, 2003. Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $46 million, from $1.152 billion in 2003 to $1.198 billion in 2004, due primarily to higher incentive based compensation costs associated with increased revenues, as well as charges in 2004 related to declines in value of intangible assets, expenses incurred in exiting an operating facility and termination of activities related to certain of our international investment management operations. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $11 million, from $1.141 billion in 2002 to $1.152 billion in 2003. Lower employee termination and facility consolidation costs in 2003, and lower asset based and 68 Table of Contents other expenses in our mutual fund operations were offset by the inclusion of expenses associated with the mutual fund business of American Skandia commencing May 1, 2003 and an international real estate asset manager which we acquired at the end of 2002. Financial Advisory Operating Results The following table sets forth the Financial Advisory segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 318 $ 1,306 $ 2,421 Expenses 563 1,417 2,464 Adjusted operating income(1) $ (245 ) $ (111 ) $ (43 ) (1) Results of this segment are the same on both an adjusted operating income basis and a GAAP basis. On July 1, 2003, we completed our previously announced agreement with Wachovia to combine each companys respective retail securities brokerage and clearing operations, forming Wachovia Securities, a joint venture headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. We have a 38% ownership interest in the joint venture, while Wachovia owns the remaining 62%. The transaction included our securities brokerage operations but did not include our equity sales, trading and research operations. As part of the transaction we retained certain assets and liabilities related to the contributed businesses, including liabilities for certain litigation and regulatory matters. We account for our 38% ownership of the joint venture under the equity method of accounting; periods prior to July 1, 2003 continue to reflect the results of our previously wholly owned securities brokerage operations on a fully consolidated basis. Accordingly Operating Results, as shown above, presents our securities brokerage operations on a consolidated basis for 2002 and the first six months of 2003 and earnings from the joint venture on the equity basis for the remaining six months of 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2004. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. The Financial Advisory segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $245 million in 2004. The segments loss for 2004 includes our share of earnings from Wachovia Securities of $172 million, on a pre tax basis and excluding transition costs. Offsetting these earnings were expenses of $227 million relating primarily to obligations for litigation and regulatory matters we retained in connection with the contributed businesses. Our loss for 2004 also includes $194 million of transition costs, of which $114 million represents our share of costs incurred by the joint venture. Results for 2004 also include adjusted operating income of $4 million from our equity sales and trading operations that were not contributed to the new entity. In 2003, the segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $111 million. This loss includes a loss of $53 million from our securities brokerage operations prior to combination of these operations with Wachovia on July 1, 2003. The segments loss for 2003 includes our share of earnings from Wachovia Securities, on a pre tax basis and excluding transition costs, of $88 million. Offsetting these results were expenses of $107 million relating primarily to obligations for litigation and regulatory matters we retained in connection with the contributed businesses. Full year results from our securities brokerage operations for 2003 include $100 million of transition costs, of which $32 million represents our share of costs incurred by the venture, as well as a pre tax gain of $22 million recorded on the completion of the combination of the businesses. In addition, results for 2003 include income of $2 million from our equity sales and trading operations that were not contributed to the new entity. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The Financial Advisory segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $111 million in 2003, as discussed above. In 2002 the segment reported a loss of $43 million. The loss consisted of an $87 million loss from our securities brokerage operations, which in 2003 were contributed to the joint venture, partially offset by income of $44 million from our equity sales and trading operations. 69 Table of Contents Retirement Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retirement segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 3,225 $ 2,281 $ 2,375 Benefits and expenses 2,891 2,089 2,234 Adjusted operating income 334 192 141 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 76 (1 ) (383 ) Related charges(2) (11 ) 5 7 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) (111 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) 57 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 345 $ 196 $ (235 ) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of net realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and deferred policy acquisition cost amortization. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. For a discussion of these items see Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. For a discussion of these items see Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. On April 1, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA Corporation for cash consideration of $2.1 billion. Beginning April 1, 2004, the results of the former CIGNA retirement business have been included in our consolidated results. The majority of these results are reflected within our Retirement segment, as discussed below, and the remaining portion is reflected in our Asset Management segment. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this acquisition and its purchase price allocation. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $142 million, from $192 million in 2003 to $334 million in 2004. Results for the segment include $128 million of adjusted operating income from the inclusion of CIGNAs retirement business from the date of acquisition, which consisted of revenues of $875 million and total benefits and expenses of $747 million. Revenues from the acquired business consisted primarily of $580 million in commissions and other income, comprised mainly of investment income related to trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and asset management and service fees, and $240 million in net investment income. Benefits and expenses from the acquired business consisted primarily of $451 million of interest credited to policyholders account balances and $302 million of general and administrative expense. Transition costs related to the acquisition were $43 million in 2004. Adjusted operating income from the segments original defined contribution business increased $53 million, from a loss of $1 million in 2003 to income of $52 million in 2004, primarily reflecting lower crediting rates on general account liabilities and higher asset management and service fees from a larger base of customer account values. Adjusted operating income from the segments original guaranteed products business decreased $39 million, from $193 million in 2003 to $154 million in 2004, primarily due to the benefit in the prior year from investment market value changes. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $51 million, from $141 million in 2002 to $192 million in 2003. Our guaranteed products business reported adjusted operating income of $193 70 Table of Contents million in 2003, an increase of $28 million from 2002, reflecting more favorable investment results and lower operating expenses in 2003, partially offset by an $18 million decrease in income from prepayments of investments. The remainder of the increase in adjusted operating income came from the segments defined contribution business, which also benefited from more favorable investment results and lower operating expenses in 2003. Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $944 million, from $2.281 billion in 2003 to $3.225 billion in 2004 and include $875 million of revenue in 2004 from the business acquired from CIGNA, as discussed above. Revenue for the segments original businesses, excluding the business acquired from CIGNA, increased by $69 million. Premiums increased $62 million, primarily due to an increase in sales of structured settlements following the upgrade of Prudential Insurances financial strength rating by A.M. Best during 2004. Commissions and other income increased $24 million as a result of growth in customer account values. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in net investment income as the prior period benefited from investment market value changes. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $94 million, from $2.375 billion in 2002 to $2.281 billion in 2003. Net investment income decreased $47 million due primarily to an $18 million decrease in income from prepayments of investments and a decline in yields resulting from the reinvestment of assets in a lower interest rate environment. Premiums decreased $48 million in our guaranteed products business primarily as a result of lower single premium annuity and structured settlement product sales. Benefits and Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $802 million, from $2.089 billion in 2003 to $2.891 billion in 2004 and include $747 million of benefits and expenses in 2004 from the business acquired from CIGNA, as discussed above. Benefits and expenses for the segments original businesses, excluding the business acquired from CIGNA, increased by $55 million. The increase in benefits and expenses is primarily due to a $68 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, reflecting the increase in premiums discussed above, partially offset by lower crediting rates on general account liabilities. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $145 million, from $2.234 billion in 2002 to $2.089 billion in 2003. Policyholders benefits, together with the change in policy reserves and interest credited to policyholders, decreased $121 million due to the decrease in premium activity noted above, as well as more favorable investment results in 2003 and lower crediting rates on general account liabilities. Operating expenses decreased $16 million from 2002 to 2003 reflecting cost reduction measures implemented in prior periods. 71 Table of Contents Sales Results and Account Values The following table shows the changes in the account values and net sales of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net sales are total sales minus withdrawals or withdrawals and benefits, as applicable. Sales and net sales do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Defined Contribution: Beginning total account value $ 28,658 $ 22,914 $ 24,640 Sales 8,890 5,179 3,858 Withdrawals (10,421 ) (3,381 ) (3,248 ) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(1) 4,876 3,946 (2,336 ) Acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business(2) 34,657 Ending total account value $ 66,660 $ 28,658 $ 22,914 Net sales (withdrawals) $ (1,531 ) $ 1,798 $ 610 Guaranteed Products(3): Beginning total account value $ 41,955 $ 39,058 $ 39,825 Sales 6,114 3,256 1,467 Withdrawals and benefits (7,221 ) (4,013 ) (3,590 ) Change in market value and interest income 3,694 3,281 2,166 Other(4) (539 ) 373 (810 ) Acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business(2) 19,143 Ending total account value $ 63,146 $ 41,955 $ 39,058 Net withdrawals $ (1,107 ) $ (757 ) $ (2,123 ) (1) The year ended December 31, 2002 includes increases to account values of $360 million added to customer accounts due to Common Stock received as demutualization consideration and increases to account values of $448 million added to customer accounts from inclusion of amounts not previously reflected in this segment. (2) Account values and activity related to the CIGNA retirement business include amounts acquired under reinsurance agreements. (3) Prudentials retirement plan accounted for 8%, 15% and 32% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. This sales activity predominantly represents repricing of scheduled maturities. These scheduled maturities are also reflected in withdrawals and therefore have no impact on net sales. Ending total account value includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $9.8 billion, $9.7 billion and $8.5 billion as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (4) Represents changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. Includes a $152 million reduction in account value as of January 1, 2004 reflecting the adoption of SOP 03 1. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service defined contribution business amounted to $66.7 billion as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $38.0 billion from December 31, 2003, primarily reflecting $34.7 billion of defined contribution account value acquired from CIGNA. Also contributing to this increase was a $4.9 billion increase in the market value of mutual funds and separate accounts during 2004. These increases were partially offset by net withdrawals of $1.5 billion, which include the withdrawal of approximately $600 million in the first quarter of 2004 relating to retirement plans of our retail securities brokerage operations as a result of the combination of these operations with Wachovia Securities. The decline in net sales from the 2003 period was primarily due to the increase in lapses related to the acquisition of the CIGNA retirement business, as expected, and a single large case sale in the third quarter of 2003. Account values for guaranteed products amounted to $63.1 billion as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $21.2 billion from December 31, 2003, primarily reflecting $19.1 billion of defined benefit account value acquired from CIGNA. Also contributing to this increase was $3.7 billion of market value increases and client reinvestment of interest income and dividends, which were partially offset by net withdrawals of $1.1 billion. The increase in net withdrawals from 2003 reflects transfers in 2004 from the guaranteed products business to our Asset Management segment and a single sale in the third quarter of 2003 related to the single large defined contribution case sale discussed above. 72 Table of Contents 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service defined contribution business amounted to $28.7 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $5.7 billion from $22.9 billion as of December 31, 2002. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of mutual funds and separate accounts as well as net sales of $1.8 billion, primarily as the result of a single large case sale in the third quarter of 2003. Account values for our guaranteed products business amounted to $42.0 billion as of December 31, 2003, an increase of $2.9 billion from December 31, 2002, reflecting an increase in market value and interest income partially offset by net withdrawals of $757 million. Included in net withdrawals are sales of $1.1 billion from the sale of funding agreements issued through our Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program that was launched in 2003, as well a large sale in the third quarter of 2003 related to the large defined contribution case sale discussed above. International Insurance and Investments Division International Insurance Our international insurance operations are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect their U.S. dollar results from period to period even if results on a local currency basis are relatively constant. Exchange rates fluctuated significantly for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The financial results of our International Insurance segment reflect the impact of a currency hedging program designed to mitigate the risk that unfavorable exchange rate changes will reduce the segments U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. This program is primarily associated with our Japanese and Korean insurance businesses. Under the program, local earnings are translated into U.S. dollar equivalent earnings at fixed rates based upon forward currency contracts executed with third parties reflected in Corporate and Other operations. Results of Corporate and Other operations include any differences between gains or losses from the contracts with third parties and the translation adjustments recorded by the International Insurance segment. These hedging transactions decreased revenues and adjusted operating income of the International Insurance segment by $75 million and $46 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and increased adjusted operating income by $32 million in 2002. Unless otherwise stated, we have translated all information in this section, including the impact of the currency hedging program, on the basis of actual exchange rates for the periods indicated. To provide a better understanding of local operating performance, where indicated below, we have analyzed local results both on the basis of actual exchange rates and on the basis of constant exchange rates. When we discuss constant exchange rate information below, it is on the basis of the average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2004. 73 Table of Contents Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating Results: Revenues: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 3,453 $ 2,935 $ 2,379 Gibraltar Life 2,982 2,720 2,694 6,435 5,655 5,073 Benefits and expenses: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life 2,938 2,486 2,000 Gibraltar Life 2,580 2,350 2,316 5,518 4,836 4,316 Adjusted operating income: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life 515 449 379 Gibraltar Life 402 370 378 917 819 757 Realized investment gains (losses), net(1) 16 21 (172 ) Related charges(2) (13 ) (35 ) (16 ) Investment gains on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) 68 Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) (68 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 920 $ 805 $ 569 (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges that represent the element of Dividends to policyholders that is based on a portion of certain realized investment gains required to be paid to policyholders. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. For a discussion of these items see Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. For a discussion of these items see Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income increased $32 million, from $370 million in 2003 to $402 million in 2004, including a $18 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income of Gibraltar Life increased $14 million, including a $9 million benefit in the prior year resulting from a decrease in our estimated liability for guaranty fund assessments for which the current year includes only a minimal benefit. The increase from the prior year came primarily from a more favorable level of policyholders benefits and expenses, including the extinguishment, during 2004, of a liability established in connection with Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, partially offset by the effect of a lower than anticipated level of surrenders in the current year, requiring increases in reserves to reflect the continuation of business in force that we had expected to terminate. Adjusted operating income from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $66 million, from $449 million in 2003 to $515 million in 2004, including a $15 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income of our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $51 million, as the impact of continued growth of our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life and costs in 2003 of relocating to a new home office building in Tokyo were partially offset by a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses in 2004. 74 Table of Contents The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis, excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income, including results of Gibraltar Life, increased 7%. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income decreased $8 million, from $378 million in 2002 to $370 million in 2003, including a $22 million negative impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income of Gibraltar Life increased $14 million in 2003 from 2002. This increase reflected improved investment results in 2003 and the negative impact in 2002 of refinements in estimates, primarily related to amounts due to policyholders. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in the amount of Gibraltar Lifes business in force as expected during the period following its restructuring and a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses in 2003 than the prior year. Adjusted operating income from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $70 million, from $379 million in 2002 to $449 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income of our operations in countries other than Japan increased $56 million, from $37 million in 2002 to $93 million in 2003, including a $15 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. The $56 million increase came primarily from our operation in Korea, reflecting strong sales and continued favorable persistency. The contribution from continued growth of our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life and the more favorable level of policyholder benefits in 2003 was partially offset by a less favorable level of expenses which include costs of relocating to a new home office in Tokyo during the first quarter of 2003 and an $21 million negative impact of currency fluctuations. The segments increase in adjusted operating income includes the effect of year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates as well as the impact of our hedging at expected exchange rates. On a constant exchange rate basis, excluding the impact of currency hedging, adjusted operating income, including results of Gibraltar Life, increased 11%. Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $780 million, from $5.655 billion in 2003 to $6.435 billion in 2004, including a net favorable impact of $370 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $410 million, from $6.111 billion in 2003 to $6.521 billion in 2004. Revenues on this basis from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $352 million. This increase in revenues came primarily from an increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $284 million, from $2.889 billion in 2003 to $3.173 billion in 2004. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $129 million, from $2.081 billion in 2003 to $2.210 billion in 2004, including a $60 million decline in premiums from single premium insurance contracts for which there was a corresponding decline in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves. Premiums and policy charges and fee income, excluding the premiums from single premium insurance contracts, increased $189 million. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Korean operation increased $114 million, from $604 million in 2003 to $718 million in 2004. The increase in premium and policy charges and fee income in both operations, excluding the effect of the single premium insurance contracts, was primarily the result of new sales and strong persistency. Premiums and policy charges and fee income in all other countries increased $41 million from 2003 to 2004, including an increase of $25 million from our operation in Taiwan. Revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $262 million, from $2.720 billion in 2003 to $2.982 billion in 2004, including a $204 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, revenues increased $58 million, from $2.967 billion in 2003 to $3.025 billion in 2004, due primarily to increased premiums from single premium life insurance contracts of $125 million for which there was a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits. Sales of single premium business in 2003 consisted primarily of endowment contracts, for which premiums collected from customers are not included in reported revenues. Excluding the effect of single premium insurance contracts, revenue declined due to a reduction in the in force business. 75 Table of Contents 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $582 million, from $5.073 billion in 2002 to 2003, including a net favorable impact of $272 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $310 million, from $5.801 billion in 2002 to $6.111 billion in 2003. Revenues on this basis from our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $447 million. This increase in revenues came primarily from an increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $400 million, from $2.489 billion in 2002 to $2.889 billion in 2003. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $223 million, from $1.858 billion in 2002 to $2.081 billion in 2003 and premiums from our Korean operation increased $125 million, from $478 million in 2002 to $603 million in 2003. The increase in premium and policy charges and fee income in both operations was primarily the result of new sales and strong persistency. Premiums in all other countries increased modestly from 2002 to 2003. Revenues for Gibraltar Life excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, decreased $137 million, from $3.104 billion in 2002 to $2.967 billion in 2003. Gibraltar Lifes decrease of $137 million is primarily due to a $122 million decline in premium revenue. The decline in premium revenue reflects a reduction in the in force business resulting from a higher than normal level of policy surrenders associated with the periods following Gibraltar Lifes restructuring. Benefits and Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $682 million, from $4.836 billion in 2003 to $5.518 billion in 2004, including an unfavorable impact of $337 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $345 million reflecting a $301 million increase in our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life, and a $44 million increase from Gibraltar Life. On this same basis, benefits and expenses of our Japanese insurance operation, other than Gibraltar Life, increased $117 million from 2003 to 2004, but reflect lower policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, in the current period related to the single premium insurance contracts noted above. Benefits and expenses from our Korean operation increased $134 million from $514 million in 2003 to $648 million in 2004. The increase in benefits and expenses in both operations, excluding the effect of the single premium insurance contracts, reflects an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, resulting from the aging of business in force and a greater volume of business in force, which was driven by new sales and continued strong persistency. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $230 million, from $2.350 billion in 2003 to $2.580 billion in 2004, including an increase of $186 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $44 million from 2003 to 2004, reflecting an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves associated with single premium life insurance contracts and the greater increases in policy reserves, in 2004, associated with a lower than anticipated level of surrenders. In addition, benefits and expenses for the prior period include a $9 million benefit from decreases in our estimated liability for guaranty fund assessments for which the current year includes only a minimal benefit. These increases were partially offset by a lower level of policyholders benefits due primarily to a reduction in the in force business and the reduction in reserves related to the extinguishment of a liability established in connection with Gibraltar Lifes restructuring as well as a more favorable level of general and administrative expenses compared to the prior year. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $520 million, from $4.316 billion in 2002 to $4.836 billion in 2003, including a negative impact of $300 million relating currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $220 million reflecting a $371 million increase in our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, partially offset by a $151 million decrease from Gibraltar Life. The $371 million increase in our international insurance operations, other than Gibraltar Life, reflects an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, and an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs resulting from the aging of business in force and a greater volume of business in force in our Japanese and Korean operations, which was driven by new sales and continued strong persistency. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $34 million, from $2.316 billion in 2002 to $2.350 billion in 2003, including an increase of $185 million relating to year over year fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 76 Table of Contents Excluding the impact of the currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses decreased $151 million, from $2.694 billion in 2002 to $2.543 billion in 2003. The $151 million decrease is primarily due to a decrease in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, as a result of a continued reduction of the in force business resulting from a higher than normal level of policy surrenders associated with the periods following Gibraltar Lifes restructuring. Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze new annualized premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, as well as revenues, because new annualized premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. New annualized premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis are as follows for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) New annualized premiums: On an actual exchange rate basis: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 668 $ 608 $ 510 Gibraltar Life 277 296 233 Total $ 945 $ 904 $ 743 On a constant exchange rate basis: International Insurance, excluding Gibraltar Life $ 667 $ 641 $ 574 Gibraltar Life 278 321 270 Total $ 945 $ 962 $ 844 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums declined $17 million from $962 million in 2003 to $945 million in 2004. On the same basis, new annualized premiums from our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $28 million, reflecting an increase in the number of Life Planners. Sales in all other countries, also on a constant exchange rate basis, declined $2 million, primarily reflecting a decline in sales in Korea resulting from the appointment of Life Planners to sales management positions in newly opened agencies as well as weakness in economic conditions in that country. New annualized premiums from our Gibraltar Life operation declined $43 million, on a constant exchange rate basis, from 2003 to 2004 as sales results in the prior year benefited $97 million from the sales of single premium insurance contracts for which the current year benefited $41 million. Sales of our single premium insurance contracts declined due to a reduction in guaranteed rates in the latter half of 2003. Sales other than single premium insurance contracts increased 6%. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, new annualized premiums increased $118 million, from $844 million in 2002 to $962 million in 2003, reflecting a $51 million increase from Gibraltar Life. On the same basis, new annualized premiums from our Japanese insurance operation other than Gibraltar Life increased $67 million, to $422 million in 2003, which benefited from the conclusion of an agent conference qualification period. There was no similar benefit to 2002. An increase in the Life Planner count also contributed to the growth in sales. Sales in all other countries, also on a constant exchange rate basis, were unchanged, primarily as a result of the benefit to sales in 2002 in our operation in Korea, from sales activity in anticipation of a premium rate increase in April 2002. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. Japanese authorities regulate interest rates guaranteed in our Japanese insurance contracts. The regulated guaranteed interest rates do not necessarily match the actual returns on the underlying investments. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. With regulatory approval, guaranteed rates may be changed on new business. While these actions enhance our ability 77 Table of Contents to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products sold in Japan, other than at Gibraltar, are margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality and morbidity tables. Our mortality and morbidity experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis in 2004, 2003, and 2002 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. International Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 447 $ 240 $ 245 Expenses 361 250 245 Adjusted operating income 86 (10 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net(1) (48 ) (52 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 38 $ (62 ) $ (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains (losses), net. For a discussion of these items see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. Adjusted Operating Income 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $96 million, from a loss of $10 million in 2003 to income of $86 million in 2004, primarily reflecting earnings of $53 million attributable to our acquisition of Hyundai in the first quarter of 2004, including $20 million of fees due from the Korean government under the terms of the transaction. Also contributing to the increase in adjusted operating income were improved results from our global derivatives businesses, as well as the negative effect in 2003 of a $34 million charge to write off a receivable related to an investment in Korea. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $10 million in 2003 compared to a break even result in 2002, as 2003 results included a charge of $34 million to write off a receivable related to an investment in Korea. This charge was partially offset by the benefit from recently acquired units and higher earnings from our existing businesses. Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $207 million, from $240 million in 2003 to $447 million in 2004, primarily as a result of our acquisition of Hyundai in the first quarter of 2004, including $20 million of fees due from the Korean government under the terms of the transaction. Also contributing to the increase were higher revenues from our global derivatives businesses, as well as the negative effect in 2003 of a $34 million charge to write off a receivable related to an investment in Korea. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $5 million, from $245 million in 2002 to $240 million in 2003, due to a charge of $34 million recorded in 2003 to write off a receivable related to an investment in Korea. Partially offsetting this charge were higher revenues from our recently acquired units and our global derivatives businesses. 78 Table of Contents Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $111 million, from $250 million in 2003 to $361 million in 2004, primarily due to our acquisition of Hyundai in the first quarter of 2004 as discussed above. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $5 million, from $245 million in 2002 to $250 million in 2003, primarily due to higher expenses corresponding with the higher level of revenues discussed above. Corporate and Other Operations Corporate and Other operations include corporate level activities, after allocations to our business segments, real estate and relocation services, and businesses that we have placed in wind down status but have not divested, which, collectively, we refer to as Other Businesses. Corporate level activities consist primarily of corporate level income and expenses, after allocations to any of our business segments, income from our qualified pension plans and investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any of our segments. Corporate level activities includes returns from investments that we do not allocate to any of our business segments, as well as the impact of transactions with other segments. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Operating Results: Corporate level activities(1) $ 83 $ 37 $ 117 Other businesses: Real Estate and Relocation Services 101 63 46 Other (26 ) (12 ) (7 ) Adjusted operating income 158 88 156 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) (34 ) (36 ) (90 ) Divested businesses(3) (105 ) (166 ) (15 ) Sales practices remedies and costs(4) (20 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 19 $ (114 ) $ 31 (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. (2) See Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. for a discussion of these items. (3) See Divested Businesses for a discussion of the results of our divested businesses. (4) See Sales Practices Remedies and Costs for a discussion of our life insurance sales practices remedies and costs. 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations had adjusted operating income of $158 million in 2004 compared to $88 million in 2003. Adjusted operating income from Corporate level activities increased by $46 million, from $37 million in 2003 to $83 million in 2004. Corporate level activities includes income from our qualified pension plan of $466 million in 2004, an increase of $94 million from $372 million in 2003, reflecting an increase in the allocation to other segments of pension service costs. The increase in allocated pension service costs in 2004 was partially offset by a reduction in the allocation to other segments of other benefit costs related to non active employees that are now retained in Corporate level activities. Corporate level activities general and administrative expenses before qualified pension income were $563 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003. In 2003, general and administrative expenses included $37 million of costs related to a structured financing transaction we entered into prior to our demutualization. General and administrative expenses, other than this cost, increased $44 million in comparison to 2003, reflecting the reduction in the allocation to other segments of other benefit costs related to non active employees discussed above. Current period results reflect an initial $39 million benefit from reduction in postretirement benefit costs relating to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Corporate level activities included $68 million of costs in 2004 from retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation, as compared 79 Table of Contents to $23 million in 2003. The costs in 2004 include the impact of a reduction in our policy dividend scale. Our obligations under these settlements relate to both variable life and traditional dividend paying policies that were issued before our demutualization. A reduction in the dividend scale determined by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance in late 2004 resulted in an increase in the obligation for net premiums on traditional dividend paying policies to be absorbed by us under these settlements, which was recognized within 2004 Corporate and Other results. For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2005, we will continue to apply a discount rate of 5.75% and we will reduce the expected return on plan assets to 8.50% from 8.75% in 2004. In addition, the rate of increase in compensation levels will remain unchanged at 4.50% in 2005. We determined our expected return on plan assets based upon the arithmetic average of prospective returns, which is based upon a risk free rate as of the measurement date adjusted by a risk premium that considers historical statistics and expected investment manager performance, for equity, debt and real estate markets applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions, we expect that on a consolidated basis income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted operating income in 2005, but at a level of about $60 million to $70 million below the 2004 contribution of $361 million. In 2005, pension service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments. The allocated expenses to our business segments will be partially offset by a reduction in the allocation of other benefit costs related to non active employees that will be retained in Corporate level activities. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services increased by $38 million, from $63 million in 2003 to $101 million in 2004. The improvement is the result of higher revenues in our real estate franchise operations and higher operating income in our real estate financing business due to increased real estate transaction volumes and home prices. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Corporate and Other operations resulted in adjusted operating income of $88 million in 2003 and $156 million in 2002, a decline of $68 million. Adjusted operating income from corporate level activities decreased $80 million, from $117 million in 2002 to $37 million in 2003. Corporate level activities includes income from our qualified pension plan of $372 million in 2003, a decline of $130 million from $502 million in 2002, reflecting a decline in the expected rate of return on plan assets from 9.50% to 8.75% and a reduction in the discount rate from 7.25% to 6.50%. Investment income, net of interest expense, declined by $57 million, reflecting the funding of the acquisition of American Skandia and share repurchases. Corporate level general and administrative expenses were $556 million in 2003, before qualified pension income, compared to $631 million in 2002, a decrease of $75 million. General and administrative expenses for 2003 included $37 million of costs related to a structured financing transaction. General and administrative expenses, other than this cost, decreased by $112 million primarily due to reduced costs pertaining to certain company wide initiatives, as well as our outsourcing of certain human resource support functions to a third party. Corporate level activities included $23 million of costs in 2003 from retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation, as compared to $96 million in 2002. The lower costs in 2003 were primarily attributable to improved equity market conditions in 2003. The costs in 2002 were partially offset by a $26 million reduction of a liability we established in 2001 for death and other benefits due with respect to policies for which we had not received a death claim but where death had occurred, due to a change in our estimate. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services increased by $17 million, from $46 million in 2002 to $63 million in 2003, which benefited from decreased expenses in the 2003 period. Results of Operations of Closed Block Business We established the Closed Block Business effective at the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional participating policies. See Overview Closed Block Business for additional details. 80 Table of Contents At the end of each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable for participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. As required by GAAP, we developed an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block, and if actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expect, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any policyholder dividend obligations that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expect in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. If cumulative performance is less favorable than we expected, the policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will be the actual dividends declared by the Board of Directors. Subsequent to the date of demutualization, there was no required charge to expense to recognize a policyholder dividend obligation for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expect. However, net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation to be paid to Closed Block policyholders, unless otherwise offset by future experience, with an offsetting amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Accordingly, we have recorded a policyholder dividend obligation to Closed Block policyholders of $3.141 billion as of December 31, 2004. Operating Results Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented only in accordance with GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business GAAP results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) GAAP results: Revenues $ 8,231 $ 7,982 $ 7,121 Benefits and expenses 7,316 7,612 7,878 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ 915 $ 370 $ (757 ) Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes, Extraordinary Gain on Acquisition and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change increased $545 million, from $370 million in 2003 to $915 million in 2004. Net realized investment gains increased $289 million, from $426 million in 2003 to $715 million in 2004. In addition, dividends to policyholders decreased $88 million, reflecting reductions in the 2005 dividend scale, and operating expenses declined $76 million. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change increased $1.127 billion, from a loss of $757 million in 2002 to income of $370 million in 2003. Net realized investment gains (losses) increased $1.013 billion, from net realized investment losses of $587 million in 2002 to net realized investment gains of $426 million in 2003. In addition, dividends to policyholders decreased $54 million, reflecting reductions in the dividend scale for 2003, and operating expenses declined $49 million. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. 81 Table of Contents Revenues 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $249 million, from $7.982 billion in 2003 to $8.231 billion in 2004. Net realized investment gains increased $289 million, from $426 million in 2003 to $715 million in 2004. Premiums decreased $84 million, from $3.860 billion in 2003 to $3.776 billion in 2004. We expect the decline in premiums for this business to continue as the policies in force mature or terminate in the Closed Block. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $861 million, from $7.121 billion in 2002 to $7.982 billion in 2003. Net realized investment gains (losses) increased $1.013 billion, from net realized investment losses of $587 million in 2002 to net realized investment gains of $426 million in 2003. Premiums decreased $162 million, from $4.022 billion in 2002 to $3.860 billion in 2003. Benefits and Expenses 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $296 million, from $7.612 billion in 2003 to $7.316 billion in 2004. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, including interest credited to policyholders accounts, decreased $120 million, from $4.313 billion in 2003 to $4.193 billion in 2004, consistent with the decline in policies in force, as discussed above, as well as reserve adjustments recorded in 2004. Dividends to policyholders decreased $88 million, from $2.452 billion in 2003 to $2.364 billion in 2004, reflecting reductions in the 2005 dividend scale based on evaluations of the experience underlying the dividend scale. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $76 million, from $561 million in 2003 to $485 million in 2004, reflecting lower distribution costs as we have discontinued sales of traditional products as well as our continued efforts to reduce operating cost levels. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $266 million, from $7.878 billion in 2002 to $7.612 billion in 2003. Policyholder benefits and related changes in reserves, including interest credited to policyholders accounts, decreased $131 million, from $4.444 billion in 2002 to $4.313 billion in 2003, consistent with the discontinuation of sales of traditional products, as discussed above. Dividends to policyholders decreased $54 million, from $2.506 billion in 2002 to $2.452 billion in 2003, reflecting reductions in the dividend scale for 2003 based on evaluations of the experience underlying the dividend scale. Operating expenses, including distribution costs that we charge to expense, decreased $49 million, from $610 million in 2002 to $561 million in 2003, reflecting reduced operating cost levels. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth policy surrender experience for the Closed Block Business, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 1,435 $ 1,364 $ 1,234 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves 3.0 % 2.9 % 2.6 % 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $71 million, from $1.364 billion in 2003 to $1.435 billion in 2004. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves increased from 2.9% in 2003 to 3.0% in 2004. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $130 million, from $1.234 billion in 2002 to $1.364 billion in 2003. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves increased from 2.6% in 2002 to 2.9% in 2003. 82 Table of Contents Income Taxes Shown below is our income tax provision (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax provision (benefit) that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods. Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) Tax provision (benefit) $ 955 $ 657 $ (188 ) Impact of: Effect of change in repatriation assumption for certain international operations (120 ) Disposition of subsidiaries 78 183 Non taxable investment income 149 72 116 Tax provision (benefit) excluding these items $ 1,104 $ 687 $ 111 Tax provision (benefit) at statutory rate $ 1,151 $ 693 $ 30 For the year ended December 31, 2004, the difference between taxes excluding the items shown above and taxes that would have resulted from the application of the statutory rate is attributable, in part, to a non taxable government subsidy for prescription drug benefits provided to retirees and foreign and domestic tax credits, partially offset by state income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the difference between taxes excluding the items shown above and taxes that would have resulted from the application of the statutory rate is attributable, in part, to reductions in foreign tax rates and an increase in tax credits, partially offset by an increase in state income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the difference between taxes excluding the items shown above and taxes that would have resulted from the application of the statutory rate is attributable, in part to an increase in the valuation allowance attributable to our foreign net operating losses and state net operating losses. Discontinued Operations Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under GAAP. A summary of the results of discontinued operations by business is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (in millions) International securities operations $ (42 ) $ (97 ) $ (71 ) Web based workplace distribution of voluntary benefits (58 ) Healthcare operations 6 11 71 Property and casualty operations (2 ) (28 ) (32 ) Other (7 ) (13 ) 3 Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes (45 ) (127 ) (87 ) Income tax benefit (27 ) (69 ) (11 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes $ (18 ) $ (58 ) $ (76 ) Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains Realized investment gains, net of losses, primarily include gains and losses resulting from sales and impairments of fixed maturity and equity investments, prepayment premiums we receive on private bond issues, and gains and losses in connection with derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. 83 Table of Contents We perform impairment reviews on an ongoing basis to determine when a decline in value is other than temporary. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent (generally if greater than 20%) and duration (generally if greater than six months) of the decline in value; the reasons for the decline (credit event or interest rate related); our ability and intent to hold our investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment we write down the value of the security to its fair value, with a corresponding charge recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The causes of the impairments discussed below were specific to each individual issuer and did not directly result in impairments to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity impairments, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see General Account Investments Equity Securities Impairments of Equity Securities below. Additionally, see Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation of Investments above for a discussion on investment valuations. The level of impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. We may realize additional credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as well as the interest rate environment. We use derivative contracts to hedge the risk that changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates will affect the market value of certain investments. We also use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our non U.S. businesses. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to be announced mortgage backed securities primarily related to our mortgage dollar roll program. Many of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and consequently we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily account for the hedged assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our hedging activities can contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income. The comparisons below describe realized investment gains, net of losses and related charges and adjustments. Related charges, which are not applicable to the Closed Block Business, pertain to policyholder dividends, deferred policy acquisition costs, reserves for future policy benefits, and payments associated with the market value adjustment features related to certain of the annuity products we sell. A percentage of net realized investment gains on specified Gibraltar Life assets is required to be paid as dividends to Gibraltar Life policyholders. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs for interest sensitive products based on estimated gross profits, which include net realized investment gains on the underlying invested assets. The related charge for deferred policy acquisition costs represents the amortization related to net realized investment gains. We adjust the reserves for some of our policies when cash flows related to these policies are affected by net realized investment gains, and the related charge for reserves for future policy benefits represents that adjustment. Certain of our annuity products contain a market value adjustment feature that requires us to pay to the contractholder or entitles us to receive from the contractholder, upon surrender, a market value adjustment based on the crediting rates on the contract surrendered compared to crediting rates on newly issued contracts or based on an index rate at the time of purchase compared to an index rate at time of surrender, as applicable. These payments offset the realized investment gains or losses incurred upon the disposition of the underlying invested assets. The related charge represents the payments or receipts associated with these market value adjustment features. The changes in these related charges from one period to another may be disproportionate to the changes in realized investment gains, net of losses, because the indicated adjustments relate to realized investment gains evaluated over several periods. A portion of realized gains, pertaining to certain derivative results, is included in adjusted operating income. Pursuant to a currency hedging program, we execute forward sale contracts in the hedged currencies in exchange 84 Table of Contents for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these contracts correspond with future periods in which non U.S. earnings are expected to be generated. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP. All resulting profits or losses from such contracts, including mark to market adjustments of open contracts, are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. When the contracts are terminated in the same period that the expected earnings emerge, the resulting positive or negative cash flow is included in adjusted operating income. In addition, we utilize interest and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. For the derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, mark to market adjustments of open contracts as well as periodic swap settlements are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. However, the periodic swap settlements as well as other derivative related yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income to reflect the after hedge yield of the underlying instruments. As part of the acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business, we entered into reinsurance agreements with CIGNA, including a modified coinsurance with assumption arrangement that applies to the defined benefit guaranteed cost contracts acquired. The net results of these contracts are recorded in Commissions and other income, as a result of the reinsurance arrangement, and such net results include realized investment gains and losses. Adjustments to Realized investment gains (losses), net include the adjustment necessary to exclude these realized investment gains and losses from adjusted operating income. The following tables set forth realized investment gains (losses), net, by investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. For a discussion of our general account investment portfolio and related results, including overall income yield and investment income, as well our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording impairment charges, see General Account Investments below. Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Realized investment gains (losses), net: Financial Services Businesses $ 11 $ (156 ) $ (778 ) Closed Block Business 715 426 (587 ) Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net $ 726 $ 270 $ (1,365 ) Financial Services Businesses: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments $ 114 $ (93 ) $ (508 ) Equity securities 113 23 (149 ) Derivative instruments (309 ) (231 ) (226 ) Other 93 145 105 Total 11 (156 ) (778 ) Related adjustments 71 (94 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments $ 82 $ (156 ) $ (872 ) Related charges $ (58 ) $ (43 ) $ 6 Closed Block Business: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments $ 304 $ 331 $ (212 ) Equity securities 317 (33 ) (186 ) Derivative instruments 45 64 (174 ) Other 49 64 (15 ) Total $ 715 $ 426 $ (587 ) 85 Table of Contents 2004 to 2003 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment gains in 2004 were $11 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $156 million in 2003. Realized gains in 2004 included fixed maturity impairments of $122 million and credit related losses of $7 million, compared with impairments of $266 million and credit related losses of $22 million in 2003. The impact of the fixed maturity impairments, which are further discussed below, and credit related losses were more than offset in 2004 and partly offset in 2003 by realized gains on fixed maturity sales and, to a lesser extent, private bond prepayment premiums. Realized net gains on equity securities were $113 million in 2004, primarily due to sales in our Gibraltar Life operations and in our domestic private equity portfolio. Realized net gains on equity securities in 2003 were $23 million, primarily reflecting impairments of $101 million as discussed below. Realized gains in 2004 include net derivative losses of $309 million, compared to net derivative losses of $231 million in 2003. The losses in 2004 were primarily the result of negative mark to market adjustments of $160 million on currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Derivatives losses in 2004 also include losses of $75 million on hedges of investments in foreign businesses and losses of $50 million on hedges of foreign denominated investments, both driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar, as well as losses of $34 on treasury futures contracts used to manage the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Derivative losses in 2003 were primarily the result of losses of $161 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Realized investment gains in 2004 also included a gain of $47 million related to the sale of a real estate investment, compared to 2003 which included gains of $47 million related to the sale of real estate investments and $55 million related to the sale of other long term investments. During 2004, we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $136 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $382 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2003. The impairments in 2004 consisted of $122 million relating to fixed maturities, $9 million relating to equity securities and $5 million relating to other invested assets which include real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. The impairments in 2003 consisted of $266 million relating to fixed maturities, $101 million relating to equity securities and $15 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2004 consisted of $48 million on public securities and $74 million on private securities, compared with fixed maturity impairments of $61 million on public securities and $205 million on private securities in 2003. Impairments on fixed maturities in 2004 were concentrated in the finance, services and manufacturing sectors, were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers and included a private fixed maturity impairment relating to a Korean financial services company. Impairments on fixed maturities in 2003 were concentrated in the retail and wholesale, finance and other sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in private fixed maturity impairments for 2003 were impairments related to a Korean financial services company, a U.S. mining company and an Australian mining company. We also recognized $9 million of equity security impairments in 2004 compared with $101 million of impairments in 2003. The impairments in 2003 primarily related to our Gibraltar Life operations and were the result of equity market declines over a prolonged period. Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2004 were $715 million, compared to net gains of $426 million in 2003. Realized gains in 2004 and 2003 included net realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, private bond prepayment premiums. Partially offsetting these gains are fixed maturity impairments of $61 million and credit related losses of $6 million and fixed maturity impairments of $123 million and credit related losses of $46 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. For further information on these impairments see the discussion below. We realized net gains on equity securities of $317 million in 86 Table of Contents 2004, net of $9 million of impairments, compared to losses of $33 million in 2003, including $59 million of impairments which are discussed below. The net realized gains on equity securities in 2004 were primarily the result of sales as we shifted from a passive index to active management strategy. Net gains on derivatives were $45 million in 2004, compared to gains of $64 million in 2003. Derivative gains in 2004 and 2003 included $37 million and $45 million, respectively, of gains on treasury futures contracts used to manage the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio. Derivative gains in 2003 also included gains of $24 million on equity futures contracts. Realized investment gains in 2004 and 2003 also included $37 million and $41 million, respectively, of gains in connection with the partial divestiture of an equity investment in a real estate operating company. During 2004, we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $81 million attributable to the Closed Block Business, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $198 million attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2003. The impairments in 2004 consisted of $61 million relating to fixed maturities, $9 million relating to equity securities and $11 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments in 2003 consisted of $123 million relating to fixed maturities, $59 million relating to equity securities and $16 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2004 consist of $14 million on public securities and $47 million on private securities, compared with fixed maturity impairments of $39 million on public securities and $84 million on private securities in 2003. Impairments in 2004 were concentrated in the services, manufacturing and asset backed securities sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in private fixed maturity impairments for 2004 were impairments relating to a U.K. facilities management company and an electronic test equipment distributor. Impairments in 2003 were concentrated in the retail and wholesale, manufacturing and other sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in private fixed maturity impairments for 2003 were impairments relating to a European dairy and bakery goods producer, an Australian mining company and an aerospace parts manufacturer. We also recognized $9 million of equity security impairments in 2004 compared with $59 million of impairments in 2003. The impairments in 2003 were the result of declines in the U.S. stock market over a prolonged period. 2003 to 2002 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2003 were $156 million compared to $778 million in 2002. Realized losses in 2003 included fixed maturity impairments of $266 million and credit related losses of $22 million compared with $385 million and $470 million for 2002, respectively. For further information on these impairments see the discussion below. Credit losses in 2002 were primarily related to adverse financial conditions concentrated in the services, utilities, and transportation sectors. Realized losses in 2003 and 2002 on fixed maturity securities were offset, in part, by realized gains driven largely by sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment, along with gains on private bond prepayment premiums. We realized net gains on equity securities of $23 million in 2003 compared to net losses of $149 million in 2002, which included impairments of $101 million and $164 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, as discussed below. Impairments on equity securities in 2003 were more than offset by equity trading gains, primarily in Gibraltar Life, as it shifted its portfolio to a passive index strategy. Realized losses in 2003 include net derivative losses of $231 million, compared to net derivative losses of $226 million in 2002. The losses in 2003 included negative mark to market adjustments of $161 million on forward currency contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Derivative losses in 2002 were primarily the result of losses of $152 million on treasury futures contracts used to manage the duration of the Companys fixed maturity investment portfolio, as well as losses of $88 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. During 2003, we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $382 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $585 million attributable 87 Table of Contents to the Financial Services Businesses in 2002. The impairments in 2003 consisted of $266 million relating to fixed maturities, $101 million relating to equity securities and $15 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments in 2002 consisted of $385 million relating to fixed maturities, $164 million relating to equity securities and $36 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2003 consist of $61 million on public securities and $205 million on private securities, compared with fixed maturity impairments of $220 million on public securities and $165 million on private securities in 2002. Impairments in 2003 were concentrated in the retail and wholesale, finance and other sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in private fixed maturity impairments for 2003 were impairments relating to a Korean financial services company, a U.S. mining company and an Australian mining company. Impairments in 2002 were concentrated in the transportation, technology, services, finance and manufacturing sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in fixed maturity impairments for 2002 are impairments relating to three U.S. airline carriers and various telecommunication companies. We also recognized $101 million of equity security impairments in 2003 compared with $164 million of impairments in 2002. These impairments in both periods primarily related to our Gibraltar Life operations and were the result of equity market declines over a prolonged period. Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2003 were $426 million compared to losses of $587 million in 2002. Realized gains in 2003 reflected net realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment and private bond prepayment premiums, partially offset by fixed maturity impairments of $123 million and credit related losses of $46 million. Realized losses in 2002 included $302 million of fixed maturity impairments and $420 million of credit related losses, which were partially offset by realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in a declining rate environment and private bond prepayment gains. For further information on these impairments see the discussion below. Credit losses in 2002 were primarily related to adverse financial conditions concentrated in the services, utilities, and transportation sectors. We realized net losses on equity securities of $33 million in 2003, including $59 million of impairments, compared to losses of $186 million in 2002, which included $145 million of impairments. For further information on these impairments see the discussion below. Net gains on derivatives were $64 million in 2003 compared to losses of $174 million in 2002. The derivative losses in 2002 were largely attributable to losses on equity futures contracts and currency hedges of non U.S. dollar investments. Realized investment gains in 2003 also include $41 million of gains in connection with the partial divestiture of an equity investment in a real estate operating company. During 2003, we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $198 million attributable to the Closed Block Business, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $476 million attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2002. The impairments in 2003 consisted of $123 million relating to fixed maturities, $59 million relating to equity securities and $16 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments in 2002 consisted of $302 million relating to fixed maturities, $145 million relating to equity securities and $29 million relating to other invested assets as defined above. The impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2003 consist of $39 million on public securities and $84 million on private securities, compared with fixed maturity impairments of $157 million on public securities and $145 million on private securities in 2002. Impairments in 2003 were concentrated in the retail and wholesale, manufacturing and other sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in private fixed maturity impairments for 2003 are impairments relating to a European dairy and bakery goods producer, an Australian mining company and an aerospace parts manufacturer. Impairments in 2002 were concentrated in the transportation, services, technology, and finance sectors and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in fixed maturity impairments for 2002 are impairments relating to various telecommunication companies and a sales and marketing company. 88 Table of Contents We also recognized $59 million of equity security impairments in 2003 compared with $145 million of impairments in 2002. These impairments in both periods were primarily the result of market declines over a prolonged period. General Account Investments We maintain a diversified investment portfolio in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our general account does not include: (1) assets of our securities brokerage, securities trading, and banking operations, (2) assets of our asset management operations, including assets managed for third parties, and (3) assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet. The General Account portfolio is managed pursuant to the distinct objectives of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; and maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders; and maximizing total return and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business. Management of Investments We design asset mix strategies for our general account to match the characteristics of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocations within a disciplined risk management framework. Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions quarterly. Our Senior Vice President, Asset Liability and Risk Management, approves the investment policy for the general account assets of our insurance subsidiaries and oversees the investment process for our general account. Under his direction, the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group works with our business units to develop investment objectives, performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group also works closely with each of our business units to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into its processes. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group has the authority to initiate tactical shifts within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. The Asset Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those of our International Insurance segment, under the direction of the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally. Asset/Liability Management The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group uses a disciplined, risk controlled approach to asset/liability management. The methodology focuses on aligning assets to the effective sensitivity of the cash flow and return requirements of our liabilities. The Asset Liability and Risk Management Group consults with the product experts in the businesses on an ongoing basis to arrive at asset/liability matching policies and decisions. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as we develop new products and as changes in the market environment occur. 89 Table of Contents We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: interest crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities; participating individual and experience rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as GICs. We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest sensitive products successfully through several market cycles. Portfolio Composition Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial loans, equity securities and other invested assets. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our Asset Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. Our total general account investments were $213.8 billion and $174.7 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, which are segregated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Total general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $146.8 billion and $110.7 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, while total general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were $67.1 billion and $64.0 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our general account as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2004 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 85,248 $ 34,683 $ 119,931 56.1 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 2,624 2,624 1.2 Private, available for sale, at fair value 16,675 14,130 30,805 14.4 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 123 123 0.1 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 12,964 12,964 6.1 Other trading account assets, at fair value 130 130 0.1 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 1,651 2,620 4,271 2.0 Commercial loans, at book value 17,092 7,297 24,389 11.4 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,919 5,454 8,373 3.9 Other long term investments(1) 3,931 1,047 4,978 2.3 Short term investments 3,405 1,840 5,245 2.4 Total general account investments 146,762 67,071 213,833 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 2,791 2,791 Total investments $ 149,553 $ 67,071 $ 216,624 90 Table of Contents December 31, 2003 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 66,430 $ 29,538 $ 95,968 54.9 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,010 3,010 1.7 Private, available for sale, at fair value 17,921 15,052 32,973 18.9 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 58 58 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 88 88 0.1 Other trading account assets, at fair value 138 138 0.1 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 1,101 2,282 3,383 1.9 Commercial loans, at book value 11,774 7,006 18,780 10.7 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,609 5,543 8,152 4.7 Other long term investments(1) 3,487 1,041 4,528 2.6 Short term investments 4,052 3,581 7,633 4.4 Total general account investments 110,668 64,043 174,711 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 6,330 6,330 Total investments $ 116,998 $ 64,043 $ 181,041 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures (other than our equity investment in Wachovia Securities) and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, our interest in separate account investments and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Includes invested assets of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2004, our general account investment portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses consisted primarily of $104.7 billion of fixed maturity securities (71% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 79% as of December 31, 2003), $13.0 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities (9% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to less than 1% as of December 31, 2003), $17.1 billion of commercial loans (12% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 11% as of December 31, 2003), $1.7 billion of equity securities (1% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 1% as of December 31, 2003) and $10.2 billion of other investments (7% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 9% as of December 31, 2003). The increase in general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and resulting change in portfolio composition in 2004 was due primarily to approximately $18 billion of investments added during 2004 as part of the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA Corporation. The majority of the investments added from this acquisition are reflected in trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and commercial loans. The acquisition of Aoba Life on November 1, 2004 also added approximately $5 billion of investments, primarily reflected in fixed maturities, available for sale. Upon the adoption of SOP 03 1 on January 1, 2004, $3.3 billion in separate account assets were reclassified, primarily resulting in a $2.8 billion increase in fixed maturities, available for sale and a $0.6 billion increase in trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. As of December 31, 2004, our general account investment portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business consisted primarily of $48.8 billion of fixed maturity securities (73% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 70% as of December 31, 2003), $7.3 billion of commercial loans (11% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 11% as of December 31, 2003), $2.6 billion of equity securities (4% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 3% as of December 31, 2003) and $8.4 billion of other investments (12% of the total portfolio as of December 31, 2004 compared to 16% as of December 31, 2003). The increase in general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2004 was primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of the reinvestment of net investment income, partially offset by net operating outflows. 91 Table of Contents Investment Results The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses), for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2004 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed Block Business Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.60 % $ 3,976 6.82 % $ 2,709 5.29 % $ 6,685 Equity securities 3.39 40 2.54 48 2.87 88 Commercial loans 6.27 962 7.93 545 6.77 1,507 Policy loans 4.71 125 6.36 338 5.81 463 Short term investments and cash equivalents 1.70 106 2.96 72 1.92 178 Other investments 8.60 398 21.59 205 10.96 603 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.87 5,607 6.96 3,917 5.54 9,524 Investment expenses (0.17 ) (266 ) (0.25 ) (236 ) (0.20 ) (502 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.70 % 5,341 6.71 % 3,681 5.34 % 9,022 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 57 57 Total investment income $ 5,398 $ 3,681 $ 9,079 Year ended December 31, 2003 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.82 % $ 3,708 6.81 % $ 2,703 5.50 % $ 6,411 Equity securities 1.54 16 2.21 39 1.96 55 Commercial loans 7.15 803 8.39 564 7.61 1,367 Policy loans 5.36 150 6.40 347 6.04 497 Short term investments and cash equivalents 1.84 104 2.17 78 1.94 182 Other investments 8.87 371 9.92 101 9.08 472 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.12 5,152 6.73 3,832 5.70 8,984 Investment expenses (0.16 ) (224 ) (0.24 ) (200 ) (0.19 ) (424 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.96 % 4,928 6.49 % 3,632 5.51 % 8,560 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 120 120 Total investment income $ 5,048 $ 3,632 $ 8,680 (1) Yields are based on average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for securities lending activity are calculated net of corresponding liabilities and rebate expenses. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets of the Financial Services Businesses. Yields for 2003 are presented on a basis consistent with our current reporting practices. (2) Investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading and banking operations. The overall income yield on our general account investments after investment expenses, excluding realized investment gains (losses), was 5.34% and 5.51% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net investment income yield attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 4.70% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 4.96% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in yield between periods was primarily due to declines in fixed maturities and commercial loan yields primarily attributable to the impact of investment activities in a low interest rate environment and the inclusion of investments related to CIGNAs retirement business at yields below the average portfolio yields. The yields on the investments related to CIGNAs retirement business reflect the adjustment to fair value at the purchase date. The yield on the Financial Services Businesses portfolios includes the income yield on the investment portfolio of our Japanese insurance operations, which was 2.08% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 92 Table of Contents 2.02% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio between periods is primarily attributable to an increase in U.S. dollar investments and more favorable foreign exchange rates. The net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business was 6.71% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 6.49% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in yield for the year ended December 31, 2004 is primarily due to more favorable results from limited partnerships within other investments. Continuation of the current low interest rate environment will result in our reinvestment of maturing securities at lower rates and would reduce the yield we are able to earn on our investments, which support our obligations for certain products, including traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts. This reduction in yield would also have a corresponding impact on the spread, which is the difference between the yield on our investments and the amounts that we are required to pay our customers related to these products, which could have a negative impact on our future profitability. Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Mix Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. Our international insurance portfolios are predominantly comprised of foreign government securities. We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed by the Asset Liability and Risk Management Group and, in the case of our international insurance portfolios, to a profile that reflects local market regulations and our investment competencies in these markets. We seek to employ relative value analysis both in credit selection and in purchasing and selling securities. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments. We use our private placement and asset backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has directly originated more than half of our annual private placement originations. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $100.2 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $104.7 billion as of December 31, 2004 versus $83.0 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $87.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $45.4 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $48.8 billion as of December 31, 2004 versus $41.3 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $44.6 billion as of December 31, 2003. 93 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2004. December 31, 2004 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2005 $ 6,161 6.1 % $ 2,567 5.7 % Maturing in 2006 5,671 5.6 2,247 4.9 Maturing in 2007 5,477 5.5 1,776 3.9 Maturing in 2008 6,285 6.3 2,533 5.6 Maturing in 2009 6,657 6.6 2,555 5.6 Maturing in 2010 6,368 6.4 2,169 4.8 Maturing in 2011 7,114 7.1 2,908 6.4 Maturing in 2012 4,679 4.7 2,197 4.8 Maturing in 2013 3,881 3.9 2,483 5.5 Maturing in 2014 and beyond 47,952 47.8 23,989 52.8 Total Fixed Maturities $ 100,245 100.0 % $ 45,424 100.0 % Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Industry(1) Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains(2) Gross Unrealized Losses(2) Fair value Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains(2) Gross Unrealized Losses(2) Fair Value (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 14,562 $ 1,037 $ 71 $ 15,528 $ 13,115 $ 996 $ 61 $ 14,050 Finance 14,611 531 81 15,061 10,839 569 57 11,351 Utilities 8,062 684 14 8,732 6,467 630 28 7,069 Services 7,058 526 39 7,545 6,646 570 26 7,190 Energy 3,521 311 13 3,819 2,829 289 10 3,108 Retail and Wholesale 2,637 142 33 2,746 2,402 147 24 2,525 Transportation 2,415 171 17 2,569 1,800 166 4 1,962 Other 1,073 34 11 1,096 646 31 14 663 Total Corporate Securities 53,939 3,436 279 57,096 44,744 3,398 224 47,918 Foreign Government 25,321 882 148 26,055 23,075 892 91 23,876 Asset Backed Securities 9,193 105 75 9,223 6,189 121 19 6,291 Mortgage Backed 8,017 133 23 8,127 4,966 94 28 5,032 U.S. Government 3,775 416 4 4,187 3,992 333 7 4,318 Total $ 100,245 $ 4,972 $ 529 $ 104,688 $ 82,966 $ 4,838 $ 369 $ 87,435 (1) Investment data has been classified based on Lehman industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes $39 million of gross unrealized gains and $21 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004, compared to $42 million of gross unrealized gains and $26 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 on securities classified as held to maturity, which are not reflected in other comprehensive income. As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2004, consist primarily of 25% foreign government sector, 15% finance sector, 15% manufacturing sector, 9% asset backed securities sector, and 8% utilities sector, compared to 28% foreign government sector, 16% manufacturing sector, 13% finance sector, 8% services sector, and 8% utilities sector as 94 Table of Contents of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, 93% of the mortgage backed securities in the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass through securities related to residential mortgage loans. Collateralized mortgage obligations represented the remaining 7% of mortgage backed securities, and less than 1% of fixed maturities. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $0.5 billion as of December 31, 2004, compared to $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were concentrated primarily in the foreign government, finance, and manufacturing sectors, and gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated primarily in the foreign government, manufacturing and finance sectors. The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Industry(1) AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fairvalue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 8,853 $ 770 $ 14 $ 9,609 $ 9,412 $ 770 $ 33 $ 10,149 Utilities 5,938 572 8 6,502 5,398 584 24 5,958 Finance 5,537 287 8 5,816 5,587 368 5 5,950 Services 4,948 482 6 5,424 5,088 554 10 5,632 Energy 2,354 276 2 2,628 2,280 267 3 2,544 Retail and Wholesale 2,029 183 3 2,209 1,990 200 1 2,189 Transportation 1,292 114 2 1,404 1,196 112 4 1,304 Other 27 5 32 29 5 34 Total Corporate Securities 30,978 2,689 43 33,624 30,980 2,860 80 33,760 U.S. Government 4,533 450 3 4,980 4,844 284 31 5,097 Asset Backed Securities 4,675 41 3 4,713 2,842 45 8 2,879 Mortgage Backed 3,894 78 5 3,967 1,372 50 2 1,420 Foreign Government 1,344 187 2 1,529 1,255 182 3 1,434 Total $ 45,424 $ 3,445 $ 56 $ 48,813 $ 41,293 $ 3,421 $ 124 $ 44,590 (1) Investment data has been classified based on Lehman industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2004 consist primarily of 19% manufacturing sector, 13% utilities sector, 12% finance sector, 11% services sector, and 10% asset backed securities sector, compared to 23% manufacturing sector, 14% finance sector, 13% utilities sector, 12% services sector, and 12% U.S. Government as of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, 87% of the mortgage backed securities in the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass through securities related to residential mortgage loans. Collateralized mortgage obligations represented the remaining 13% of mortgage backed securities, and 1% of fixed maturities. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business were $0.1 billion as of December 31, 2004, compared to $0.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, were concentrated primarily in the manufacturing, finance and utilities sectors, while gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated primarily in the manufacturing, U.S. Government and utilities sectors. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office, or SVO, of the NAIC evaluates the investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. NAIC designations of 1 or 2 include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 95 Table of Contents or higher by Moodys or BBB or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys and BB+ or lower by Standard & Poors. As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. Non U.S. dollar denominated investments of our Japanese insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines; however, they are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the Financial Services Agencys credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the non U.S. dollar denominated investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by Moodys or rating equivalents based on Japanese government ratings. The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $5.5 billion, or 5%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2004, compared to $5.7 billion, or 7%, of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003. Below investment grade fixed maturities represented 16% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2004, versus 13% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003. The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $5.2 billion, or 11%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2004, compared to $5.9 billion, or 14%, of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003. Below investment grade fixed maturities represented 20% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2004, versus 40% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003. Public Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 63,883 $ 2,500 $ 276 $ 66,107 $ 50,133 $ 2,247 $ 210 $ 52,170 2 Baa 17,642 988 123 18,507 13,767 900 91 14,576 Subtotal Investment Grade 81,525 3,488 399 84,614 63,900 3,147 301 66,746 3 Ba 2,110 176 72 2,214 1,580 167 11 1,736 4 B 839 93 1 931 757 89 3 843 5 C and lower 85 13 2 96 67 30 2 95 6 In or near default 25 9 34 34 3 1 36 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,059 291 75 3,275 2,438 289 17 2,710 Total Public FixedMaturities $ 84,584 $ 3,779 $ 474 $ 87,889 $ 66,338 $ 3,436 $ 318 $ 69,456 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, 10 securities with amortized cost of $151 million (fair value, $152 million) and 27 securities with amortized cost of $149 million (fair value, $151 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $38 million of gross unrealized gains and $21 gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004, compared to $41 million of gross unrealized gains and $25 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 on securities classified as held to maturity that are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 96 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. (1) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 22,141 $ 1,291 $ 22 $ 23,410 $ 17,277 $ 1,071 $ 48 $ 18,300 2 Baa 7,202 546 8 7,740 7,052 551 16 7,587 Subtotal Investment Grade 29,343 1,837 30 31,150 24,329 1,622 64 25,887 3 Ba 2,102 199 4 2,297 1,954 190 2 2,142 4 B 1,021 86 1 1,106 1,283 109 5 1,387 5 C and lower 104 12 2 114 91 17 1 107 6 In or near default 11 5 16 12 3 15 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,238 302 7 3,533 3,340 319 8 3,651 Total Public FixedMaturities $ 32,581 $ 2,139 $ 37 $ 34,683 $ 27,669 $ 1,941 $ 72 $ 29,538 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, 9 securities with amortized cost of $23 million (fair value, $24 million) and 65 securities with amortized cost of $204 million (fair value, $211 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains(3) Gross Unrealized Losses(3) Fair Value Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains(3) Gross Unrealized Losses(3) Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 4,587 $ 321 $ 19 $ 4,889 $ 4,647 $ 400 $ 7 $ 5,040 2 Baa 8,652 687 25 9,314 8,749 749 13 9,485 Subtotal Investment Grade 13,239 1,008 44 14,203 13,396 1,149 20 14,525 3 Ba 1,506 102 1 1,607 2,004 146 13 2,137 4 B 399 42 3 438 508 38 3 543 5 C and lower 293 32 1 324 552 62 12 602 6 In or near default 224 9 6 227 168 7 3 172 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 2,422 185 11 2,596 3,232 253 31 3,454 Total Private FixedMaturities $ 15,661 $ 1,193 $ 55 $ 16,799 $ 16,628 $ 1,402 $ 51 $ 17,979 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, 196 securities with amortized cost of $2,759 million (fair value, $2,820 million) and 196 securities with amortized cost of $2,803 million (fair value, $2,876 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $1 gross unrealized gains and zero gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004, compared to $1 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 on securities classified as held to maturity that are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 97 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. (1) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAIC Designation Rating Agency Equivalent Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 3,059 $ 338 $ 4 $ 3,393 $ 2,862 $ 336 $ 2 $ 3,196 2 Baa 7,817 813 11 8,619 8,205 950 9 9,146 Subtotal Investment Grade 10,876 1,151 15 12,012 11,067 1,286 11 12,342 3 Ba 1,213 102 2 1,313 1,615 139 9 1,745 4 B 448 26 1 473 440 31 3 468 5 C and lower 234 18 252 362 20 6 376 6 In or near default 72 9 1 80 140 4 23 121 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 1,967 155 4 2,118 2,557 194 41 2,710 Total Private FixedMaturities $ 12,843 $ 1,306 $ 19 $ 14,130 $ 13,624 $ 1,480 $ 52 $ 15,052 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, 150 securities with amortized cost of $1,430 million (fair value, $1,490 million) and 110 securities with amortized cost of $1,157 million (fair value, $1,188 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Losses Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Less than six months $ 3 $ 1 $ 51 $ 13 Six months or greater but less than nine months Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 2 1 7 2 Twelve months and greater Total $ 5 $ 2 $ 58 $ 15 The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were concentrated in the manufacturing and services sectors, while the gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated in the manufacturing and asset backed securities sectors, as well as other corporate securities. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedLosses AmortizedCost Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Less than six months $ 4 $ 1 $ 74 $ 24 Six months or greater but less than nine months Nine months or greater but less than twelve months Twelve months and greater Total $ 4 $ 1 $ 74 $ 24 98 Table of Contents The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were primarily concentrated in the foreign government securities sector, while the gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated in the manufacturing, utilities, and transportation sectors. Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or industry specific concerns. We classify public fixed maturity securities of issuers that have defaulted as securities not in good standing and all other public watch list assets as closely monitored. For private placements our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers conduct specific servicing tests on each investment on an ongoing basis to determine whether the investment is in compliance or should be placed on the watch list or assigned an early warning classification. We assign early warning classifications to those issuers that have failed a servicing test or experienced a minor covenant default, and we continue to monitor them for improvement or deterioration. In certain situations, the general account benefits from negotiated rate increases or fees resulting from a covenant breach. We assign closely monitored status to those investments that have been recently restructured or for which restructuring is a possibility due to substantial credit deterioration or material covenant defaults. We classify as not in good standing securities of issuers that are in more severe conditions, for example, bankruptcy or payment default. Fixed maturity securities classified as held to maturity are those securities where we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost in our consolidated statement of financial position. Other fixed maturity securities are considered available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value. All held to maturity securities and all available for sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent (generally if greater than 20%) and the duration (generally if greater than six months) of the decline; the reasons for the decline in value (credit event or interest rate related); our ability and intent to hold our investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. Estimated fair values for fixed maturities, other than private placement securities, are based on quoted market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services. Estimated fair values for private placement fixed maturities are determined primarily by using a discounted cash flow model which considers the current market spreads between the U.S. Treasury yield curve and corporate bond yield curve, adjusted for type of issue, its current credit quality and its remaining average life. The estimated fair value of certain non performing private placement fixed maturities is based on managements estimates. Impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $122 million in 2004 and $266 million in 2003. Impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $61 million in 2004 and $123 million in 2003. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains above. 99 Table of Contents Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Certain products included in the retirement business we acquired from CIGNA, as well as certain products included in the International Insurance segment, are experience rated, meaning that the investment results associated with these products will ultimately inure to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products are classified as trading. These trading investments are reflected on the balance sheet as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. All investment results, which include realized and unrealized gains and losses, as well as net investment income, for these investments are reported in Commissions and other income. Investment results on these assets will ultimately inure to contractholders. The following table sets forth the composition of our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short Term Investments $ 951 $ 951 $ $ Fixed Maturities: U.S. Government 311 306 3 3 Foreign Government 387 390 37 38 Corporate Securities 8,866 8,765 17 15 Asset Backed Securities 617 613 Mortgage Backed 1,494 1,492 Total Fixed Maturities 11,675 11,566 57 56 Equity Securities 378 447 32 32 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities $ 13,004 $ 12,964 $ 89 $ 88 As of December 31, 2004, 67% of the portfolio was comprised of publicly traded securities, versus 100% of the portfolio as of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, 98% of the fixed maturity portion of the portfolio was investment grade investments, versus 100% of the fixed maturity portion of the portfolio as of December 31, 2003. The changes in the net holding gain or loss on these securities during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were losses of $108 million and $1 million, respectively. The following table sets forth our public fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC rating as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 4,929 $ 23 $ 67 $ 4,886 $ 55 $ $ 1 $ 54 2 Baa 2,454 9 31 2,431 2 2 Subtotal Investment Grade 7,383 32 98 7,317 57 1 56 3 Ba 16 16 4 B 14 1 15 5 C and lower 2 2 6 In or near default Subtotal Below Investment Grade 32 1 33 Total Public Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 7,415 $ 33 $ 98 $ 7,350 $ 57 $ $ 1 $ 56 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. 100 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our private fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC rating as of the dates indicated. (1)(2) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 1,168 $ 3 $ 24 $ 1,147 $ $ $ $ 2 Baa 2,852 20 51 2,821 Subtotal Investment Grade 4,020 23 75 3,968 3 Ba 165 4 1 168 4 B 45 2 47 5 C and lower 22 1 1 22 6 In or near default 8 3 11 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 240 10 2 248 Total Private Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 4,260 $ 33 $ 77 $ 4,216 $ $ $ $ (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. Commercial Loans Investment Mix We originate domestic commercial mortgages using dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through our various regional offices across the country. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. Our loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. Consumer loans are loans extended by Gibraltar Life to individuals for financing purchases of consumer goods and services and are guaranteed by third party guarantor companies. Ongoing surveillance of the portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria. We place loans on early warning status in cases where we detect that the physical condition of the property, the financial situation of the borrower or tenant or other market factors could lead to a loss of principal or interest. We classify loans as closely monitored when there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that will lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial loans. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we held approximately 11% of our general account investments in commercial loans. This percentage is gross of a $0.5 billion allowance for losses as of both December 31, 2004 and 2003. 101 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our commercial loan portfolio by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. The commercial loans that support experience rated contracts of our Retirement segment are shown separately in the tables below. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) Commercial loans by region: U.S. Regions: Pacific $ 2,981 17.0 % $ 2,712 37.0 % $ 2,694 22.1 % $ 2,607 36.9 % South Atlantic 1,675 9.5 1,444 19.7 1,654 13.5 1,392 19.7 Middle Atlantic 1,631 9.3 1,285 17.5 1,780 14.6 1,161 16.4 East North Central 849 4.8 503 6.8 849 7.0 513 7.3 West South Central 593 3.4 403 5.5 558 4.6 308 4.4 Mountain 503 2.9 434 5.9 478 3.9 420 5.9 West North Central 458 2.6 247 3.4 410 3.4 254 3.6 New England 244 1.4 220 3.0 323 2.6 280 4.0 East South Central 174 1.0 90 1.2 202 1.6 124 1.8 Subtotal U.S. 9,108 51.9 7,338 100.0 8,948 73.3 7,059 100.0 Asia 3,453 19.7 3,020 24.7 Other 242 1.4 242 2.0 Commercial loans supporting experience rated contracts of the Retirement segment 4,742 27.0 Total Commercial Loans $ 17,545 100.0 % $ 7,338 100.0 % $ 12,210 100.0 % $ 7,059 100.0 % December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) Commercial loans by property type: Apartment complexes $ 2,651 15.1 % $ 1,821 24.8 % $ 2,909 23.8 % $ 1,733 24.5 % Industrial buildings 2,241 12.8 1,867 25.4 1,805 14.8 1,574 22.3 Office buildings 2,043 11.6 1,480 20.2 1,770 14.5 1,585 22.4 Residential properties 1,307 7.4 4 1,360 11.1 6 0.1 Agricultural properties 1,012 5.8 769 10.5 1,010 8.3 854 12.1 Retail stores 856 4.9 797 10.9 906 7.4 833 11.9 Other 364 2.1 600 8.2 290 2.4 474 6.7 Subtotal of collateralized loans 10,474 59.7 7,338 100.0 10,050 82.3 7,059 100.0 Uncollateralized loans 2,329 13.3 2,160 17.7 Commercial loans supporting experience rated contracts of the Retirement segment 4,742 27.0 Total Commercial Loans $ 17,545 100.0 % $ 7,338 100.0 % $ 12,210 100.0 % $ 7,059 100.0 % 102 Table of Contents Commercial Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2004. December 31, 2004 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Maturing in 2005 $ 1,320 7.5 % $ 194 2.7 % Maturing in 2006 1,065 6.1 282 3.8 Maturing in 2007 1,262 7.2 539 7.3 Maturing in 2008 1,604 9.1 528 7.2 Maturing in 2009 2,262 12.9 871 11.9 Maturing in 2010 817 4.6 699 9.5 Maturing in 2011 681 3.9 720 9.8 Maturing in 2012 466 2.7 533 7.3 Maturing in 2013 907 5.2 599 8.2 Maturing in 2014 and beyond 2,419 13.8 2,373 32.3 Subtotal 12,803 73.0 7,338 100.0 Commercial loans supporting experience rated contracts of the Retirement segment 4,742 27.0 Total Commercial Loans $ 17,545 100.0 % $ 7,338 100.0 % Commercial Loan Quality We establish valuation allowances for loans that are determined to be non performing as a result of our loan review process. We define a non performing loan as a loan for which it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. Valuation allowances for a non performing loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. We record subsequent adjustments to our valuation allowances when appropriate. The following tables set forth the gross carrying value for commercial loans by loan classification as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business (in millions) Performing $ 12,340 $ 7,334 $ 11,709 $ 7,029 Delinquent, not in foreclosure 366 1 391 1 Delinquent, in foreclosure 2 23 5 Restructured 97 1 87 24 Commercial loans supporting experience rated contracts of the Retirement segment 4,742 Total Commercial Loans $ 17,545 $ 7,338 $ 12,210 $ 7,059 103 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial loan portfolio as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business (in millions) (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year $ 436 $ 53 $ 420 $ 74 Release of allowance for losses (8 ) (10 ) (15 ) (20 ) Charge offs, net of recoveries (2 ) (2 ) (6 ) (1 ) Change in foreign exchange 22 37 Commercial loans supporting experience rated contracts of the Retirement segment 5 Allowance, end of year $ 453 $ 41 $ 436 $ 53 Equity Securities Investment Mix Our equity securities consist principally of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value (in millions) Public equity $ 1,448 $ 186 $ 29 $ 1,605 $ 984 $ 97 $ 38 $ 1,043 Private equity 37 10 1 46 44 15 1 58 Total Equity $ 1,485 $ 196 $ 30 $ 1,651 $ 1,028 $ 112 $ 39 $ 1,101 The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value (in millions) Public equity $ 2,089 $ 580 $ 53 $ 2,616 $ 1,748 $ 574 $ 50 $ 2,272 Private equity 3 1 4 6 4 10 Total Equity $ 2,092 $ 581 $ 53 $ 2,620 $ 1,754 $ 578 $ 50 $ 2,282 104 Table of Contents Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Cost Gross Unrealized Losses Cost Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Less than six months $ 39 $ 11 $ 11 $ 3 Six months or greater but less than nine months Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 2 1 Twelve months and greater 3 1 Total $ 41 $ 12 $ 14 $ 4 The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were primarily concentrated in the services sector, while the gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated in the manufacturing and transportation sectors. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Cost Gross Unrealized Losses Cost Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Less than six months $ 27 $ 6 $ 13 $ 4 Six months or greater but less than nine months Nine months or greater but less than twelve months Twelve months and greater Total $ 27 $ 6 $ 13 $ 4 The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing sector, while the gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated in the retail and wholesale, manufacturing, and services sectors. Impairments of Equity Securities For those equity securities classified as available for sale we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent (generally if greater than 20%) and the duration (generally if greater than six months) of the decline; the reasons for the decline in value (credit event or market fluctuation); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. Estimated fair values for publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted 105 Table of Contents market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services. Estimated fair values for privately traded equity securities are determined using valuation and discounted cash flow models that call for a substantial level of judgment from management. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $9 million in 2004 and $101 million in 2003. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $9 million in 2004 and $59 million in 2003. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains above. Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments are comprised as follows: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business (in millions) Joint ventures and limited partnerships: Real estate related $ 225 $ 284 $ 84 $ 284 Non real estate related 584 796 482 758 Real estate held through direct ownership 1,385 33 1,160 21 Separate accounts 1,361 1,273 Other 376 (66 ) 488 (22 ) Total other long term investments $ 3,931 $ 1,047 $ 3,487 $ 1,041 Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities Certain products included in the retirement business we acquired from CIGNA, as well as certain products included in the International Insurance segment, are experience rated, meaning that the investment results associated with these products will ultimately inure to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products are classified as trading. These trading investments are reflected on the balance sheet as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value and all investment results are reported in Commissions and other income. Results for 2004 include the recognition of $43 million of investment losses on Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. These losses primarily represent interest rate related mark to market adjustments on fixed maturity securities. Consistent with our treatment of Realized investment gains (losses), net, these losses, which will ultimately inure to the contractholders, are excluded from adjusted operating income. In addition, results for 2004 include increases of $11 million in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments that support these experience rated contracts. These liability changes are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances and are also excluded from adjusted operating income. As prescribed by GAAP, changes in the fair value of mortgage loans, other than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in mortgage loan value are reflected as a change in the liability to contractholders in the current period. The change in the contractholder liability related to mortgage loans, a decrease of $27 million for 2004, was excluded from adjusted operating income. There were no amounts recorded related to these items in 2003 and 2002. Sales Practices Remedies and Costs Our income from continuing operations before income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2002 includes a pre tax charge of $20 million of additional individual life sales practices costs including related administrative costs, litigation costs and settlements, which is reflected in our Corporate and Other operations. 106 Table of Contents Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under GAAP. The results of these divested businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change for these businesses is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Dryden Wealth Management $ (81 ) $ (4 ) $ (6 ) Property and casualty insurance (1 ) (347 ) 71 Prudential Securities capital markets (22 ) 287 (36 ) Gibraltar Casualty (81 ) (79 ) Other divested businesses (1 ) (18 ) 22 Total loss from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change (105 ) (163 ) (28 ) Less: Realized investment gains (losses), net 3 (13 ) Divested business excluding realized investment gains (losses), net $ (105 ) $ (166 ) $ (15 ) Dryden Wealth Management In December 2004, we committed to sell or exit our Dryden Wealth Management business that was previously included in our International Investments segment. Results of this business have been reclassified as a divested business for all periods presented. Dryden Wealth Management encompasses our private client wealth management business in Europe and Asia. Results for 2004 include a charge of $53 million for impairment of goodwill associated with this business. Property and Casualty Insurance In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed our previously announced agreements to sell our property and casualty insurance companies that operate nationally in 48 states outside of New Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual, as well as our New Jersey property and casualty insurance companies to Palisades Group. Results of the property and casualty insurance operations have been reclassified as a divested business for all periods presented. The loss in 2003 includes a charge of $491 million, which primarily reflects the write down of the assets to be sold to fair value and managements best estimate of the cost of retained liabilities. The retained liabilities include pre closing litigation and obligations under reinsurance contracts provided in connection with potential adverse loss development on the business sold to Liberty Mutual. In addition, in 2003 we sold our specialty automobile insurance business and entered into an agreement to sell our work place distribution property and casualty insurance operations, which closed in the first quarter of 2004. The results of operations for these businesses are included in Loss from discontinued operations for all periods presented. Other Divested Businesses The results for the Prudential Securities capital markets businesses in 2003 include the gain from a $332 million settlement of an arbitration award. Partly offsetting this gain in 2003, are losses related to the residual investment portfolio of the business that continues to be liquidated. The losses in 2002 and 2001 also reflect the liquidation of the residual investment portfolio, as well as costs related to the wind down of the business. The results for the Gibraltar Casualty Company, a commercial property and casualty insurer that we sold in September 2000 to Everest Re Group, Ltd., reflect losses of $81 million in 2003 and $79 million in 2002 from a 107 Table of Contents stop loss reinsurance agreement we entered into pursuant to the sale, whereby if and when aggregate post sale claim and claim related payments exceed Gibraltar Casualtys reserves recorded at the time of sale, we will pay Everest for 80% of the first $200 million of such excess. As of December 31, 2003, we were fully reserved for payments under this agreement. Also reflected in other divested businesses are the results of the Prudential Home Mortgage business and certain international securities operations, as well as the operations of certain Japanese asset management units. Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Liquidity The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, to meet its obligations, including the payment of shareholder dividends, debt service, capital contributions and obligations to subsidiaries and operating expenses, are cash and short term investments, dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries. These sources of funds are complemented by Prudential Financials access to the capital markets and bank facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. As of December 31, 2004, Prudential Financial had cash and short term investments of approximately $476 million, a decrease of $966 million, or 67%, from December 31, 2003. Principal sources and uses of cash and short term investments at Prudential Financial for the year ended December 31, 2004 were as follows: 2004 (in millions) Sources: Dividends and returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) $ 1,244 Proceeds from the issuance of long term debt(2) 1,494 Proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock(2) 690 Proceeds from the issuance of retail medium term notes(3) 470 Proceeds from the issuance of short term debt, net of repayments(2) 34 Other 229 Total sources 4,161 Uses: Capital contributions to subsidiaries(4) (585 ) Share repurchases (1,493 ) Demutualization consideration(5) (326 ) Loans with subsidiaries, net of maturities(2) (1,620 ) Transfer of cash and liabilities to subsidiary (78 ) Shareholder dividends (341 ) Purchase of funding agreements from Prudential Insurance(3) (470 ) Other (214 ) Total uses (5,127 ) Net decrease in cash and short term investments $ (966 ) (1) Includes dividends and or returns of capital of $403 million from Prudential Insurance, $265 million from our international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $210 million from our bank holding company, $162 million from our asset management subsidiaries, $140 million from American Skandia, and $64 million from our other subsidiaries. (2) For a discussion of this activity see Financing Activities. (3) Proceeds from the issuance of retail medium term notes under our retail note program are used to purchase funding agreements from Prudential Insurance. See Financing Activities for a discussion of our retail note program. (4) Includes capital contributions of $384 million to our international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $100 million to our securities business subsidiaries and $101 million to our other subsidiaries. (5) See Uses of Capital Demutualization Consideration for a discussion of this activity. Sources of Capital Prudential Financial is a holding company with insubstantial assets other than investments in subsidiaries. Its capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with its ratings targets. Its subsidiaries and 108 Table of Contents businesses are also capitalized in accordance with their ratings targets. Our financial strength rating targets for our domestic life insurance companies are AA/Aa/AA for Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Inc., or Moodys, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best. For Prudential Financial, our long term senior debt rating objectives are A for S&P, Moodys and Fitch and a for A.M. Best. For our current ratings information, see Business Ratings. The primary components of capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments) and outstanding borrowings of the Financial Services Businesses that are ascribed to general corporate purposes as discussed below under Financing Activities. Based on these components, the capital position of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2004, was as follows: 2004 (in millions) Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments) $ 19,561 Debt used for general corporate purposes 3,480 Total capital $ 23,041 As shown in the table above, as of December 31, 2004, the Financial Services Businesses had approximately $23 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessments of these businesses and operations, we believe that the capital of the Financial Services Businesses exceeds the amount required to support its current business risks. We believe that this excess capital, combined with unused borrowing capacity as discussed below, exceeds $2.5 billion. Although some of these resources are in our regulated subsidiaries, and their availability is subject to prior regulatory notice, approval or non disapproval, we believe these resources give us substantial financial flexibility. The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is the primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance, which encompasses businesses of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurances RBC ratio to a level consistent with our ratings targets. RBC is determined by statutory formulas that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance related risks associated with Prudential Insurances products, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of Prudential Insurances statutory capitalization. We are continuing the process of arranging reinsurance of the Closed Block. As of December 31, 2004, we have reinsured 70% of the Closed Block. Entering into these arrangements allows the RBC formula treatment of the Closed Block to reflect more closely its economic risk profile. The Closed Block continues to be adequately capitalized to meet its future obligations as discussed under Overview Closed Block Business. On April 1, 2004, Prudential Insurance purchased CIGNAs retirement business, which was subsequently renamed Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company, or PRIAC, for $2.1 billion. Given the effects of the acquisition of PRIAC, the Prudential Insurance distribution to Prudential Holdings, LLC (see Uses of Capital Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries), Closed Block reinsurance, and the results of its operations, Prudential Insurance continues to meet or exceed its RBC target level. We also consider borrowing capacity in evaluating the capital position and financial flexibility of the Financial Services Businesses. We believe that a ratio of debt used for general corporate purposes to total capital equal to 20% or less is consistent with our ratings objectives for Prudential Financial. Our ratio as of December 31, 2004 of 15.1% implies that the Financial Services Businesses could incur up to $1.4 billion in additional borrowing for general corporate purposes and remain consistent with our ratings objectives. Uses of Capital CIGNA Retirement Acquisition. As noted above, we used $2.1 billion of capital within Prudential Insurance to fund the purchase price for the acquisition of CIGNAs retirement business, which closed on April 1, 2004. 109 Table of Contents Share Repurchases. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company acquired 32.5 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of approximately $1.5 billion. On November 9, 2004, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program under which Prudential Financial is authorized to purchase up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock in 2005. The timing and amount of any repurchases under the authorization will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and such repurchases may be effected in the open market or through negotiated transactions. This stock repurchase program supersedes all previous repurchase programs. Demutualization Consideration. In the year ended December 31, 2004, Prudential Financial paid out $326 million in demutualization consideration to eligible policyholders whom we have located since the time of demutualization and to governmental authorities in respect of other eligible policyholders we continue to be unable to locate. We remain obligated to disburse $486 million of demutualization consideration to state agencies if we are unable to establish contact with eligible policyholders within time periods prescribed by state unclaimed property laws. These laws historically required remittance after periods ranging from three to seven years, but many states have enacted laws that reduce these holding periods to accelerate the reporting of unclaimed demutualization property. Liabilities relating to demutualization consideration payments were established at the time of demutualization in 2001. Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries Our insurance and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends or distributions, all dividends or distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be declared or paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and revaluation of assets. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus was $3.327 billion and $1.557 billion, respectively. There were applicable adjustments for unrealized investment gains of $824 million and $624 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Prudential Insurance also must notify the New Jersey insurance regulator of its intent to pay a dividend. If the dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, would exceed a specified statutory limit, Prudential Insurance must also obtain a non disapproval from the New Jersey insurance regulator. The current statutory limitation applicable to New Jersey life insurers generally is the greater of 10% of the prior calendar years statutory surplus ($8.4 billion as of December 31, 2004) or the prior calendar years statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses ($1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2004). In addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. In 2004, Prudential Insurance made a distribution of $600 million to Prudential Holdings, LLC. Prudential Holdings, LLC in turn paid $403 million of such distribution to Prudential Financial. The remainder of the distribution is held as collateral at Prudential Holdings, LLC for the benefit of the IHC debt holders. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. Pursuant to Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain restrictions on Gibraltar Lifes ability to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. There are also regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd. or Prudential of Japan. We anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan to pay dividends. The ability of our asset management subsidiaries, and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries, to pay dividends is unrestricted. Liquidity of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries General Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the needs of its operations. We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost effective sources 110 Table of Contents of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic and foreign insurance operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. A projection process for cash flows from operations serves to ensure there is sufficient liquidity to meet projected cash outflows, including claims. Liquidity is measured against internally developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of the asset portfolio. The results are affected substantially by the overall quality of our investments. Cash Flow The principal sources of liquidity of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance, annuities and guaranteed products operations. Principal uses of liquidity relate to benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Uses of liquidity also include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and payments in connection with financing activities. We believe that cash flows from our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations are adequate to satisfy the liquidity requirements of these operations based on our current liability structure and considering a variety of reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels and policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. The domestic insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors, our counterparties willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we also consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions $ 22,229 36 % $ 18,869 43 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment 18,445 30 5,603 12 At market value 1,146 2 919 2 At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more 2,683 4 2,535 6 Subtotal 44,503 72 27,926 63 Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5% 17,130 28 16,202 37 Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities $ 61,633 100 % $ 44,128 100 % 111 Table of Contents Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products amounted to $12.6 billion, including $4.3 billion associated with the businesses of PRIAC, and $7.8 billion for 2004 and 2003, respectively. These withdrawals include contractually scheduled maturities of general account guaranteed investment contracts of $1,601 million and $1,274 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Since these contractual withdrawals, as well as the level of surrenders experienced, were consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability management, the associated cash outflows did not have an adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Individual life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Annuity benefits under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2004, shown in the table above, include $15.1 billion related to the businesses of PRIAC. Approximately 86% of the reserves and deposit liabilities of PRIAC are subject to discretionary withdrawal with a market value adjustment. Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, fixed maturities and public equity securities. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, our domestic insurance operations had $132.8 billion, including $13.8 billion related to PRIAC, and $108.2 billion in liquid assets, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, $109.8 billion, or 91%, of the fixed maturity investments held in our domestic insurance company general account portfolios were rated investment grade. The remaining $10.9 billion, or 9%, of fixed maturity investments were rated non investment grade. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity benchmark results in order to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy liquidity requirements under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience varying from our projections is not a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected payment of loss reserves as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of loss reserves. For a further discussion of asset/liability management, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments General Account Investments Asset/Liability Management. Our domestic insurance companies liquidity is managed through access to substantial investment portfolios as well as a variety of instruments available for funding and or managing short term cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in realized capital gains or losses or increased borrowing costs affecting results of operations. For a further discussion of realized gains or losses, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains. We believe that borrowing temporarily or selling investments earlier than anticipated will not have a material impact on the liquidity of our domestic insurance companies. Payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating and investing activities, respectively, in our financial statements. Prudential Funding, LLC Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, continues to serve as a source of financing for Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries, as well as for other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial. Prudential Funding operates under a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth 112 Table of Contents at all times. Prudential Funding borrows funds primarily through the direct issuance of commercial paper. Prudential Fundings outstanding loans to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial have declined over time as it transitions into a financing company primarily for Prudential Insurance and its remaining subsidiaries. While other subsidiaries continue to borrow from Prudential Funding, they also borrow from Prudential Financial and directly from third parties. The impact of Prudential Funding on liquidity is considered in the internal liquidity benchmarks of the domestic insurance operations. As of December 31, 2004, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $2.5 billion. Currently, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding have access to $1.5 billion of these lines and there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2004 or December 31, 2003. For a further discussion on lines of credit, see Financing Activity Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities. International Insurance Subsidiaries In our international insurance operations, liquidity is provided through ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity and the interest and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar to the discipline employed for domestic insurance subsidiaries. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity benchmarks taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. Similar to our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, our international insurance subsidiaries had total general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders) of $48.6 billion and $38.3 billion, respectively. Of those amounts, $29.7 billion and $28.8 billion, respectively, are associated with Gibraltar Life, our largest international insurance subsidiary. Concurrent with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, substantially all of its insurance liabilities were restructured, under a reorganization, to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges mitigate the extent, timing, and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers and apply to $25.8 billion and $25.8 billion of Gibraltar Lifes insurance related reserves as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, respectively. The following table sets forth the schedule (for each fiscal year ending March 31) of special surrender charges on policies that were in force at the time of the acquisition: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 15% 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% Policies issued by Gibraltar Life post acquisition are not subject to the above restructured policy surrender charge schedule. Policies issued post acquisition are subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value, less applicable surrender charges, which are currently 5% or more. In the years 2005 and 2009, a special dividend to certain Gibraltar Life policyholders will be payable based on 67% of net realized investment gains, if any, over the value of real estate and loans, net of transaction costs and taxes, included in the Reorganization Plan. As of December 31, 2004, a liability of $975 million is included in Policyholders dividends to cover the special dividend. The special dividend will take the form of either additional policy values or cash. We expect that the 2005 installment will be approximately $670 million, based upon realized investment gains as of December 31, 2004, and will be mostly in the form of additional policy values. Gibraltars investment portfolio is structured to provide adequate liquidity for the special dividend. Prudential of Japan, with $10.4 billion and $7.8 billion of general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends to policyholders) as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, respectively, is our second largest international insurance subsidiary. Prudential of Japan did not have a material amount of general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2004 or December 31, 2003. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Prudential of Japan do not 113 Table of Contents have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. In November 2004, Prudential of Japan purchased Aoba Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Aoba Life. Aoba Life is a Japanese life insurer with a run off book of insurance contracts and is the successor entity to the former Nissan Mutual Life Insurance Company, which was restructured in June 1997. Aoba Life was merged into Prudential of Japan in February 2005. Aoba Life had $5.9 billion of general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends to policyholders) as of December 31, 2004. Aoba Life did not have a material amount of general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2004. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Aoba Life do not have significant withdrawal risk because of the time elapsed since the restructuring and policyholders must undergo a new underwriting process to obtain a new insurance policy. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, our international insurance subsidiaries had cash and short term investments of approximately $3.6 billion, including $1.0 billion from Aoba Life, and $1.6 billion, respectively, and fixed maturity investments with fair values of $38.0 billion, including $3.6 billion from Aoba Life, and $30.3 billion, respectively. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity in reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Prudential Securities Group Prudential Securities Groups assets totaled $7.1 billion and $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. The businesses within Prudential Securities Group, including our investment in Wachovia Securities, continue to maintain sufficiently liquid balance sheets consisting mostly of cash and cash equivalents, segregated client assets, short term collateralized receivables from clients and broker dealers, and collateralized loans to clients. Distributions from our investment in Wachovia Securities to Prudential Securities Group totaled $80.3 million and $24.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Prudential Securities Groups total capitalization, including equity, subordinated debt and long term debt, was $2.0 billion and $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, Prudential Securities Group had remaining assets amounting to approximately $386 million related to its former institutional fixed income activities, compared to $700 million as of December 31, 2003. Financing Activities As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, total short and long term debt of the Company was $11.7 billion and $10.3 billion, respectively, including debt associated with the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, the parent company, amounted to $4.6 billion as of December 31, 2004 and $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2003, which is included in the total consolidated outstanding short and long term debt of the Company. Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital needs, as well as the capital needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt $ 446 $ 412 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 3,658 1,492 Retail medium term notes 470 Debt related to Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligations $ 4,574 $ 2,615 (1) The $711 million represents the carrying value of the debt associated with the Equity Security Units that was issued at the time of demutualization. As of December 31, 2004, the debt formerly associated with the Equity Security Units is reflected in senior debt. 114 Table of Contents Prudential Financials short term debt includes commercial paper borrowings of $446 million and $412 million as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. The weighted average interest rate on the commercial paper borrowings under this program was 1.44% and 1.21% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. To enhance financial flexibility, Prudential Financial filed a $5 billion shelf registration statement, effective April 25, 2003, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under this shelf program as of December 31, 2004 was $4.2 billion. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Financials domestic medium term note and senior note programs as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was $3.7 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 4.20% and 3.76% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On September 15, 2004, Prudential Financial issued $1 billion of senior debt under the above registration statement with a stated coupon interest rate of 5.10% and maturing on September 20, 2014. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used for general corporate purposes, including primarily a loan to one of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. The individual life business used the majority of this financing to replace reliance on 364 day letter of credit facilities supporting reserve credits achieved through reinsurance on certain term insurance business. This transaction reduced rollover and repricing risks with respect to those letter of credit facilities. In connection with Prudential Financials initial public offering in December 2001, Prudential Financial and Prudential Financial Capital Trust I, or PFCTI, issued equity security units, or the units. Each unit originally consisted of (1) a contract to purchase shares or the Purchase Contracts of Prudential Financials Common Stock in November 2004; and (2) a capital security of PFCTI. In accordance with the terms of the units, PFCTI was dissolved on July 29, 2004, and $690 million aggregate principal amount of 5.34% debentures of Prudential Financial, the sole assets of PFCTI, were distributed to the owners of PFCTIs capital securities in exchange for their capital securities. The Prudential Financial debentures were remarketed on behalf of the debenture holders on August 11, 2004, and the interest rate on the Prudential Financial debentures was reset as of August 16, 2004 to 4.104% per annum for a yield to maturity of 3.424%. The final maturity of the Prudential Financial debentures is November 15, 2006. In November 2004, the Purchase Contracts associated with our equity security units were settled. In exchange for $690 million, Prudential Financial issued 1.47 shares of Common Stock per purchase contract, or approximately 20.3 million newly issued shares. On March 25, 2004, Prudential Financial allocated $1.0 billion of the $5.0 billion shelf registration for the purpose of issuing retail medium term notes. This retail note program represents a funding source for a spread product of our Retirement segment that is economically similar to funding agreement backed Guaranteed Investment Contracts, or GICs, issued to institutional investors, except that the notes are senior obligations of Prudential Financial and are purchased by retail investors. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under this program as of December 31, 2004 was $470 million. The weighted average interest rate on this debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, was 2.85% for the year ended 2004. Effective June 2004, we formally allocated all of the $1.0 billion of the unsecured committed line of credit expiring in May of 2009 to Prudential Financial. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility as of December 31, 2004. For a discussion of our lines of credit, see Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities below. Current capital markets activities for the consolidated company principally consist of unsecured short term and long term debt borrowings issued by Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, unsecured third party bank borrowing, and asset based or secured forms of financing. The secured financing arrangements include transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements, which we generally use to finance liquid securities in our short term spread portfolios, primarily within Prudential Insurance. 115 Table of Contents The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt $ 4,043 $ 4,738 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 5,128 2,400 Surplus notes 692 691 Debt related to Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligation long term debt 5,820 3,802 Total general obligations 9,863 8,540 Limited and non recourse borrowing: Limited and non recourse short term debt 1 1 Limited and non recourse long term debt(2) 1,807 1,808 Total limited and non recourse borrowing 1,808 1,809 Total borrowings(3) 11,671 10,349 Total asset based financing 16,654 17,038 Total borrowings and asset based financings $ 28,325 $ 27,387 (1) The $711 million represent the carrying value of the debt associated with the Equity Security Units that was issued at the time of demutualization. As of December 31, 2004, the debt formerly associated with the Equity Security Units is reflected in senior debt. (2) As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, $1.75 billion of limited and non recourse debt outstanding is attributable to the Closed Block Business. (3) Does not include $2.8 billion and $1.1 billion of medium term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such notes as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. These notes are included in Policyholders account balances. For additional information see Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program. Total general debt obligations increased by $1.323 billion, or 15%, from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004, reflecting a $2.018 billion net increase in long term debt and a $695 million net decrease in short term debt. The increase in long term debt was driven primarily by $1.5 billion of long term debt issuance by Prudential Financial, as well as $470 million of retail medium term notes issued under our retail note program by Prudential Financial. The net decrease in short term debt was driven by the decreased aggregate needs of our businesses. Asset based financing decreased by approximately $384 million, primarily due to market opportunities in our spread and hedge portfolios. Prudential Fundings commercial paper and master note borrowings as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, were $2.1 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. In the second quarter of 2002, Prudential Financial issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings domestic commercial paper program. The weighted average interest rates on the commercial paper borrowings and master notes were 1.34%, 1.13% and 1.26% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Fundings domestic medium term note programs as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was $772 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Fundings long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 2.13%, 1.87%, and 3.21% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Prudential Insurance had outstanding surplus notes totaling $692 million and $691 million as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003. These debt securities, which are included as surplus of Prudential Insurance on a statutory accounting basis, are subordinated to other Prudential Insurance borrowings and to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. Our total borrowings consist of amounts used for general corporate purposes, investment related debt, securities business related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Borrowings used for general 116 Table of Contents corporate purposes include those used for cash flow timing mismatches at Prudential Financial, Prudential Financials investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries and amounts utilized for regulatory capital purposes. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our discontinued consumer banking business, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. Consolidated borrowings as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 include $1.75 billion of limited and non recourse debt attributable to the Closed Block Business. The following table summarizes our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 (in millions) General obligations: General corporate purposes $ 3,480 $ 1,966 Investment related 2,593 1,542 Securities business related 2,998 2,909 Specified other businesses 792 1,412 Equity Security Units(1) 711 Total general obligations 9,863 8,540 Limited and non recourse debt 1,808 1,809 Total borrowings $ 11,671 $ 10,349 Short term debt $ 4,044 $ 4,739 Long term debt 7,627 5,610 Total borrowings $ 11,671 $ 10,349 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 9,773 $ 8,599 Borrowings of Closed Block Business 1,898 1,750 Total borrowings $ 11,671 $ 10,349 (1) The $711 million represent the carrying value of the debt associated with the Equity Security Units issued at the time of demutualization. As of December 31, 2004, the debt formerly associated with the Equity Security Units is reflected in Securities business related. Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program In 2003, Prudential Insurance established a Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium term notes (which are included in our statements of financial position in Policyholders account balances and not included in the foregoing table) secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance and included in our Retirement segment. The funding agreements provide cash flow sufficient for the debt service on the medium term notes. The medium term notes are sold in transactions not requiring registration under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 the outstanding amount of such notes totaled approximately $2.8 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, out of an aggregate authorized amount of $6 billion. The notes have fixed or floating interest rates and original maturities ranging from two years to five years. Notes Issued to Prudential Insurance At the time of demutualization, Prudential Financial made a contribution to Prudential Insurance which was financed with proceeds from the purchase by Prudential Insurance of a series of notes issued by Prudential Financial with market rates of interest and maturities ranging from nineteen months to three years. In the year ended December 31, 2004, $600 million of notes matured. As of December 31, 2004, $150 million of the notes are outstanding; they mature in the first quarter of 2005. 117 Table of Contents Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2004, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $2.5 billion. Of this amount, $1.0 billion is under a facility entered into during May 2004, which expires in May 2009, and $1.5 billion is under a facility that expires in October 2006. Borrowings under the outstanding facilities will mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities. The facility expiring in May 2009 includes 19 financial institutions, many of which are also among the 27 financial institutions participating in the October 2006 facility. We use these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2004 or December 31, 2003. Effective June 2004, we formally allocated the $1.0 billion of the May 2009 facility to Prudential Financial. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law. Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital as of December 31, 2004, was approximately $11.8 billion and continues to be above the $5.5 billion threshold. The ability of Prudential Financial to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on its maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, based on GAAP. Prudential Financials consolidated net worth totaled $22.3 billion and $21.3 billion as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. In addition, we have a credit facility expiring in December 2007 utilizing a third party sponsored, asset backed commercial paper conduit, under which we can borrow up to $750 million. This facility is supported in its entirety by unsecured committed lines of credit from many of the financial institutions included in our other facilities. Our actual ability to borrow under this facility depends on market conditions, and with respect to the lines of credit, Prudential Financial is subject to the same net worth requirement as with our other facilities. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from banks and other financial institutions. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our major contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1Year 1 3Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in millions) Long term debt(1) $ 7,627 $ $ 1,017 $ 1,147 $ 5,463 Operating leases(1) 1,047 214 356 213 264 Other long term liabilities: Insurance liabilities(2) 48,966 4,551 7,161 6,186 31,068 Undistributed demutualization consideration(3) 486 314 126 46 Total $ 58,126 $ 5,079 $ 8,660 $ 7,592 $ 36,795 (1) See Footnote 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Insurance liabilities, reflected in the contractual obligations table above, include products for which we are currently making periodic payments, including but not limited to, structured settlements, supplemental contracts, pension closeouts, group short and long term disability products and certain annuity contracts. Insurance liabilities, reflected in the contractual obligations table above, also include products for which we are not currently making periodic payments, but for which we believe the amount and timing of future payments is essentially fixed and determinable. The contractholders generally cannot readily withdraw funds on these contracts. These amounts include, but are not limited to, structured settlements, pension closeouts, certain annuity contracts, guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements with contractually scheduled maturities and group long term disability products. Liabilities for future policy benefits of approximately $63.3 billion, policyholder account balances of approximately $86.8 billion and unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of approximately $0.3 billion as of December 31, 2004 have been excluded from the contractual obligations table. Such excluded liabilities include, but are not limited to, future policy benefits relating to life insurance products, individual disability income claim reserves that are 100% coinsured, and endowments and policyholder account balances relating to deferred/accumulation annuities and universal life products. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation and the timing of payments. Amounts included in insurance liabilities within the contractual obligations table reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but 118 Table of Contents are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $49.0 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $28.9 billion included in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004. The liability amount in the consolidated financial statements reflects the discounting for interest as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above. (3) Prudential Financial remains obligated to disburse demutualization consideration for eligible policyholders that we have been unable to locate. To the extent we continue to be unable to establish contact with these policyholders within a prescribed period of time specified by state escheat laws the funds must be remitted to governmental authorities. The amounts reflected in the table above are reflective of state escheat laws as of December 31, 2004. These liabilities are reflected within Other liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. We enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2004. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently required to make payments now or in the future. A number of guarantees provided by us relate to real estate investments, in which the investor has borrowed funds, and we have guaranteed their obligation to their lender. In some cases, the investor is an affiliate, and in other cases the unaffiliated investor purchases the real estate investment from us. We provide these guarantees to assist the investor in obtaining financing for the transaction on more beneficial terms. Our maximum potential exposure under these guarantees was $1.315 billion as of December 31, 2004. Any payments that may become required of us under these guarantees would either first be reduced by proceeds received by the creditor on a sale of the assets, or would provide us with rights to obtain the assets. These guarantees expire at various times over the next 10 years. As of December 31, 2004, no amounts were accrued as a result of our assessment that it is unlikely payments will be required. Certain contracts underwritten by the Retirement segments guaranteed products business include guarantees related to financial assets owned by the guaranteed party. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives, at fair value, in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As of December 31, 2004, such contracts in force carried a total guaranteed value of $2.002 billion. Our commercial mortgage banking business provides guarantees related to debt instruments owned by the guaranteed party. As of December 31, 2004, such arrangements carried a total guaranteed value of $247 million, with remaining contractual maturities of up to 15 years. We anticipate the extinguishment of our obligation under these guarantees prior to maturity as we intend to aggregate and pool individual items for transfer to substitute guarantors. These guarantees are secured by rights to properties valued at $323 million as of December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2004, we have accrued liabilities of $7 million representing unearned fees on these guarantees. We write credit default swaps requiring payment of principal due in exchange for the referenced credits, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit events for the referenced entities. In the event of a specified credit event, our maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced credits become worthless, is $628 million as of December 31, 2004. The credit default swaps generally have maturities of five years or less. In connection with certain acquisitions, we agreed to pay additional consideration in future periods, based upon the attainment by the acquired entity of defined operating objectives. In accordance with GAAP, we do not accrue contingent consideration obligations prior to the attainment of the objectives. As of December 31, 2004, maximum potential future consideration pursuant to such arrangements, to be resolved over the following five years, is $344 million. Any such payments would result in increases in intangible assets, including goodwill. We are also subject to other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. We have provided indemnities and guarantees related to acquisitions, dispositions, investments or other transactions that are 119 Table of Contents triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees. As of December 31, 2004, we have accrued liabilities of $13 million associated with all other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. Other Contingent Commitments In connection with our commercial mortgage banking business, we originate commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2004, we had outstanding commercial mortgage loan commitments with borrowers of $1.350 billion. In certain of these transactions, we prearrange that we will sell the loan to an investor after we fund the loan. As of December 31, 2004, $494 million of our commitments to originate commercial mortgage loans are subject to such arrangements. We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. These other commitments amounted to $4.067 billion as of December 31, 2004. Reflected in these other commitments are $3.971 billion of commitments to purchase or fund investments, including $2.932 billion that we anticipate will be funded from the assets of our separate accounts. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to assets. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the production of new insurance and annuity business. These costs include commissions, costs to issue and underwrite the policies and certain variable field office expenses. The capitalized amounts are known as deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. Our total DAC, including the impact of unrealized investment gains and losses, amounted to $8.8 billion and $7.8 billion as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 46% of our total DAC relates to our Individual Life and Annuities segment, approximately 40% relates to our International Insurance segment and approximately 14% relates to our Closed Block Business. If we were to experience a significant decrease in asset values or increase in lapse or surrender rates on policies for which we amortize DAC based on estimated gross margins or gross profits, such as participating and variable life insurance, we would expect acceleration of the amortization of DAC for the affected blocks of policies. Additionally, for all policies on which we have outstanding DAC, we would be required to evaluate whether this experience called into question our ability to recover all or a portion of the DAC, and we would be required to accelerate the amortization for some or all of the DAC if we concluded that we could not recover it. An accelerated amortization of DAC would negatively affect our reported earnings and level of capital under generally accepted accounting principles. 120 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of our core business. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate market risks. The market risks incurred and our strategies for managing these risks vary by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, consumer banking products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset management fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death and other benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to these death and other benefits under these contracts. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Insurance Division Individual Life and Annuities for payments made under the guaranteed minimum death benefit provision of certain individual annuity contracts. We manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account investments primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk adjusted equity market benchmarks. We measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and derivatives trading operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. As part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk, or VaR, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance, Annuities and Guaranteed Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. 121 Table of Contents We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 69% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2004 and 74% as of December 31, 2003. With respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and investment type contracts and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. The following tables set forth the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. As of December 31, 2004 Notional Value ofDerivatives Fair Value Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift Hypothetical Change in Fair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities $ 165,298 $ 155,335 $ (9,963 ) Commercial loans 25,549 24,536 (1,013 ) Mortgage broker loan inventory 993 987 (6 ) Policy loans 9,794 9,178 (616 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 16,443 (698 ) (708 ) (10 ) Futures 2,202 4 (49 ) (53 ) Options 760 36 21 (15 ) Forwards 12,718 (152 ) (215 ) (63 ) Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (12,271 ) (11,694 ) 577 Investment contracts (64,064 ) (62,738 ) 1,326 Net estimated potential loss $ (9,836 ) 122 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003 Notional Value ofDerivatives Fair Value Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange inFair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities $ 132,027 $ 123,866 $ (8,161 ) Commercial loans 21,037 20,140 (897 ) Mortgage broker loan inventory 1,058 1,049 (9 ) Policy loans 9,706 9,123 (583 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 11,231 (379 ) (349 ) 30 Futures 2,148 1 (68 ) (69 ) Options 278 11 3 (8 ) Forwards 12,791 (13 ) (116 ) (103 ) Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (10,844 ) (10,421 ) 423 Investment contracts (41,450 ) (40,865 ) 585 Net estimated potential loss $ (8,792 ) The tables above do not include approximately $114.0 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2004 and $103.9 billion as of December 31, 2003. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. The $1.044 billion increase in the total estimated potential loss as of December 31, 2004 from December 31, 2003 resulted primarily from the increase in our portfolio of fixed maturities including those acquired as part of the purchase of the retirement business of CIGNA Corporation during 2004. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of December 31, 2004 was $473 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $4.732 billion to $4.259 billion. Our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of December 31, 2003 was $340 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $3.401 billion to $3.061 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our general account investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. In our international life insurance business, we generally invest in assets denominated in the same currencies as our insurance liabilities, which mitigates our foreign currency exchange rate risk for these operations. Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations arises primarily from purchased investments that are denominated or payable in foreign 123 Table of Contents currencies. We generally hedge substantially all foreign currency denominated fixed income investments supporting our U.S. operations into U.S. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our equity investments in unaffiliated foreign entities. Our operations in foreign countries create two additional sources of foreign currency risk. First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign branches and subsidiaries in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations primarily in Japan and Korea. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign branches and subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. We have chosen to partially hedge this exposure. We actively manage investment foreign currency exchange rate risk within specified limits at the consolidated level using VaR based analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. We calculate this using a variance/covariance approach. We calculate VaR estimates of exposure to loss from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates for one month time periods. Our estimated VaR as of December 31, 2004 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $35 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.241 billion to $1.206 billion. Our estimated VaR as of December 31, 2003 for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $24 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $811 million to $787 million. Our average monthly VaR for foreign currency assets not hedged to U.S. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured at the 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $35 million during 2004 and $18 million during 2003. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. Our estimated VaR for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $110 million as of December 31, 2004 and $59 million as of December 31, 2003. Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities as of December 31, 2004 and 2003. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and derivatives trading operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. We maintain trading positions 124 Table of Contents in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts and are generally short term in duration. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. We test our VaR model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the VaR model with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon. The VaR for our trading activities expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at the 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon was $1 million as of December 31, 2004 and $2 million as of December 31, 2003. The average daily VaR for our trading activities, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million during 2004 and $2 million during 2003. The following table sets forth a breakdown of this VaR by risk component as follows: As ofDecember 31,2004 Average for2004 As ofDecember 31,2003 Average for2003 (in millions) Interest rate risk $ $ $ 1 $ 2 Equity risk Commodities risk 1 1 1 Total (1) $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 (1) As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and during the years then ended, VaR from foreign currency exchange rate risk in our trading activities was immaterial. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, you should not view VaR models as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 125 Table of Contents 
 
