ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward Looking Statements included below the Table of Contents, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are discussed below. Financial Services Businesses Our Financial Services Businesses consist of three operating divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division consists of our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division consists of our International Insurance and International Investments segments. Our Corporate and Other operations include our real estate and relocation services business, as well as corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that have been or will be divested, including our investment in the retail brokerage joint venture with Wachovia Securities, and businesses that we have placed in wind down status. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment, excluding financing costs associated with corporate debt which costs are reflected in Corporate and Other operations. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of capital that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. 73 We seek growth internally and through acquisitions, joint ventures or other forms of business combinations or investments. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. Closed Block Business In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our traditional domestic in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. At the time of demutualization, we determined the amount of Closed Block assets so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, holders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. Concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets that we must hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities, and certain other related assets and liabilities. The Closed Block Business is not a separate legal entity from the Financial Services Businesses; however, they are operated as separate entities and are separated for financial reporting purposes. The Financial Services Businesses are not obligated to pay dividends on Closed Block policies. Dividends on Closed Block policies reflect the experience of the Closed Block over time and are subject to adjustment by Prudential Insurances Board of Directors. Further, our plan of demutualization provides that we are not required to pay dividends on policies within the Closed Block from assets that are not within the Closed Block and that the establishment of the Closed Block does not represent a guarantee that any certain level of dividends will be maintained. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management and administrative fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. 74 Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis; our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products, which can fluctuate significantly from period to period; our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; our returns on invested assets, including the impact of credit impairments, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation; our credit and financial strength ratings; our ability to effectively utilize our tax capacity; our returns on proprietary investments we make; and our ability to manage risk and exposures, including the degree to which, and the effectiveness of, hedging these risks and exposures. In addition, factors such as general economic conditions, securities, credit and real estate market conditions, regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes and foreign exchange rates affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. See Risk Factors for a discussion of risks that have affected and may continue to affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Executive Summary Prudential Financial, a financial services leader with approximately $558 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2008, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. 75 Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through one of the largest distribution networks in the financial services industry. Current Developments Financial Markets. The stress experienced by global financial markets, that began in the second half of 2007, continued and substantially increased since then. The volatility and disruption in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with economic conditions in the U.S., including depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence, and rising unemployment, have precipitated a severe economic recession and fears of even more severe and prolonged adverse economic conditions. The global fixed income markets are experiencing a period of both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity conditions, which has affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. These events in the credit markets as well as volatility in equity and real estate markets have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on us. In response to the market dislocation affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced that it would use EESA authority to invest an aggregate of $250 billion (of the first $350 billion released under EESA) in capital issued by qualifying U.S. financial institutions under the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program, which is part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The TARP Capital Purchase Program involves the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury. Concurrently, in coordination with the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, through which it guarantees certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC insured institutions and their qualifying holding companies, as well as funds over $250,000 in non interest bearing transaction deposit accounts. In addition, since March 2008, the Federal Reserve has created several lending facilities to stabilize financial markets. Most recently on November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced the Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. The TALF has not yet been finalized but is designed to provide secured financing for newly issued asset backed securities backed by certain types of consumer and small business loans. On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a Financial Stability Plan to build upon existing programs and earmark the second $350 billion of funds that were authorized under the EESA and released in January 2009. The elements of the Financial Stability Plan, as described by the U.S. Treasury, are a Capital Assistance Program and Financial Stability Trust to make capital available to financial institutions through additional purchases of preferred stock, a Public Private Investment Fund to buy legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, a Consumer and Business Lending Initiative to restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses by expanding upon TALF, and a comprehensive housing program to, among other things, help reduce mortgage payments and interest rates. The U.S. Treasury has stated that the Financial Stability Plan will require high levels of transparency and accountability standards and dividend, acquisition and executive compensation restrictions for financial institutions that receive government assistance going forward. As a result of the volatility and disruption in the global financial markets, we took certain actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 and into 2009, including the following: Suspended all repurchases of our Common Stock under our 2008 share repurchase program, effective October 10, 2008. We do not anticipate reinstituting a share repurchase program in 2009. Reduced the annual Common Stock dividend by 50%, to $0.58 per share. 76 Redeployed certain assets to our domestic insurance subsidiaries from our non insurance subsidiaries, including contributing our Wachovia Securities joint venture interest to Prudential Insurance, to maintain the Risk Based Capital level necessary to meet our ratings objectives for our domestic insurance subsidiaries. Announced our intention to exercise our right under the lookback option to put our Wachovia Securities joint venture interest to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur in January 2010. Applied for participation in the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program, although no determination has been made with regard to our participation. Drew $3.0 billion of collateralized borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, with approximately $3.5 billion of total estimated borrowing capacity remaining at December 31, 2008, as discussed in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. In February 2009, Prudential Insurance issued collateralized funding agreements in the amount of $1.0 billion to the FHLBNY. Both Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding, LLC participated in the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. As a consequence of the commercial paper credit rating of Prudential Financial being downgraded by Fitch, as described further in Business Ratings, Prudential Financial will no longer be eligible to issue commercial paper under the CPFF. Reduced the level of proprietary investing in our Asset Management segment, to limit our exposure to public equity and real estate markets, and utilized the cash proceeds for capital and liquidity needs. Ceased sales of certain annuity products. Streamlined and enhanced data collection, analysis and decision making related to risk management. We continue to monitor the liquidity and capital needs of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. If the disruption in the credit and capital markets continues or worsens, we will need to take additional capital management actions to maintain capital consistent with our rating objectives, which may include additional internal actions or, if internal resources are insufficient or market conditions continue to deteriorate, access to external sources of capital if available. Certain of these capital management activities may require regulatory approval. In addition, in light of the significant impact the dramatic decline in equity markets had on our 2008 results and potential for continued significant volatility, we are assessing the appropriate level of equity risk for our businesses. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, rating agencies took certain steps with respect to Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. Refer to Business Ratings for more details. Our financial condition and results of operations reflect the following: Our Financial Services Businesses had a net loss of $1.096 billion in 2008, as unfavorable financial market conditions had a substantial negative effect on our investment portfolio, resulting in net realized investment losses, and on reported results of our domestic businesses. Our Individual Annuities segment reported a loss of $1.077 billion in 2008, based on pre tax adjusted operating income, primarily reflecting increases in reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs largely reflecting the impact of current market conditions. For a definition of adjusted operating income and a discussion of its use as a measure of segment operating performance, see Consolidated Results of Operations. Pre tax net realized investment losses and related adjustments of the Financial Services Businesses were $2.267 billion in 2008, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities of $2.494 billion. Net unrealized gains (losses) on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to an unrealized loss of $6.567 billion as of December 31, 2008, compared to an unrealized gain of $1.332 billion as of December 31, 2007. Gross unrealized gains increased from $3.302 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $4.684 billion as of December 31, 2008 and gross unrealized losses increased from $1.970 billion to $11.251 billion for the same periods. The increase in gross unrealized 77 losses was primarily due to credit spread widening in the credit markets and an increase in the liquidity premium demanded in the marketplace. Net unrealized gains (losses) on general account fixed maturity investments of the Closed Block Business amounted to an unrealized loss of $4.035 billion as of December 31, 2008, compared to an unrealized gain of $682 million as of December 31, 2007. Charges for impairments of goodwill and operating joint ventures had a negative pre tax impact of $653 million on results of the Financial Services Businesses in 2008. These charges related to writeoffs of goodwill within our Individual Annuities and International Investments segments and our Real Estate and Relocation business within Corporate and Other operations, as well as impairments of the carrying value of investments in certain operating joint ventures within our International Investments segment. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, had cash and short term investments of $4.434 billion; however, adverse capital market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings. For 2008 our International Insurance and Group Insurance businesses had record levels of adjusted operating income. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we continued to have positive net flows in our domestic annuity, retirement and asset management businesses, as well as solid sales in our domestic insurance businesses and sales growth in our International Insurance segment. Outlook The global and U.S. economic conditions are expected to further weaken in 2009. Credit and capital markets are expected to remain under severe stress and U.S. housing prices may continue to decline. Such conditions have and could continue to materially and adversely affect our business volumes, profit margins and credit costs. As we manage through this challenging economic environment, we continue to focus on long term strategic positioning and growth opportunities, including the following: U.S. Retirement and Investment Management Market. We look to capitalize on the growing need of baby boomers for products that provide guaranteed income for longer retirement periods. In addition, we continue to focus on our clients increasing needs for retirement income security given the volatility in the financial markets. U.S. Insurance Market. Our focus remains on solid sales in our U.S. insurance businesses which we expect to continue to benefit from expansion of our distribution channels and deepening our relationships with third party distributors. International Markets. We continue to concentrate on expanding our operations in a limited number of attractive countries and on deepening our presence in the markets in which we currently operate. We look to capitalize on opportunities arising in international markets as changing demographics and public policy have resulted in a growing demand for retirement income products similar to those offered in the U.S. Results of Operations We analyze performance of the segments and Corporate and Other operations of the Financial Services Businesses using a measure called adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations for a definition of adjusted operating income and a discussion of its use as a measure of segment operating performance. 78 Shown below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to our adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments and Corporate and Other operations to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses: Individual Annuities $ (1,077 ) $ 722 $ 586 Retirement 531 482 510 Asset Management 232 701 550 Individual Life 446 622 545 Group Insurance 340 286 229 International Insurance 1,747 1,598 1,428 International Investments (345 ) 259 143 Corporate and Other (327 ) (65 ) 42 Reconciling Items: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (2,267 ) (41 ) 66 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net 45 (55 ) 17 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net (1,734 ) 35 Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes 1,163 13 11 Divested businesses (506 ) 274 151 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 618 (400 ) (322 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses (1,134 ) 4,396 3,991 Income from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 16 290 403 Consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (1,118 ) $ 4,686 $ 4,394 Results for 2008 presented above reflect the following: Individual Annuities segment results for 2008 declined in comparison to 2007, primarily reflecting the impact of our annual reviews of, and market performance adjustments to, the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and the estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Results for 2008 included $1.160 billion of charges from these items, largely reflecting the impact of current market conditions, compared to $30 million of benefits in 2007. Also contributing to the decline was a $481 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, and a decrease in fee income, driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. Retirement segment results for 2007 included an $82 million charge related to payments made to plan clients associated with a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager. Absent the impact of this item, results for 2008 decreased in comparison to 2007, primarily reflecting higher general and administrative expenses, driven by expenses incurred to expand our full service product and service capabilities and to support several large client sales in 2008, and a decrease in asset management fees, driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values, primarily resulting from equity market depreciation. An increased benefit from reserve refinements of $50 million, primarily reflecting updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, partially offset these decreases. Asset Management segment results declined in 2008 largely due to unfavorable results from the segments proprietary investing business primarily related to investment results in fixed income and equity investments, as well as a decrease in performance based incentive fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds. These items were partially offset by higher asset management fees and higher income related to securities lending activity. 79 Individual Life segment results for 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, due to the impact of unfavorable equity markets on separate account fund performance, including the impact of equity market future rate of return assumptions. Adjusted operating income in both the current year and prior year periods benefited from the annual reviews of the assumptions underlying the estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, which benefited the current year period $79 million and the prior year period $78 million. Group Insurance segment results for 2008 improved from 2007 reflecting higher earnings in our group life business from more favorable claims experience and the benefit from a premium adjustment for updated data on a large case, as well as growth in our group disability business. The International Insurance segment is comprised of its Life Planner and Gibraltar Life operations. Results from the segments Life Planner operations improved in 2008 primarily reflecting continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations and, to a lesser extent, improved investment income margins. Results from the segments Gibraltar Life operation benefited in 2008 from improved investment income margins, the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated annuity product, and more favorable mortality experience. International Investments segment results declined primarily reflecting impairment charges of $439 million recorded during the fourth quarter 2008 related to operating joint ventures and goodwill. Corporate and Other results for 2008 declined from 2007 primarily due to losses in our real estate and relocation services business, including a charge for goodwill impairment of $117 million. Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments for the Financial Services Businesses in 2008 amounted to a loss of $2.267 billion, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities of $2.494 billion. Income from continuing operations before income taxes in the Closed Block Business decreased $274 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in net realized gains and net investment income, which was partially offset by the resulting decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense. Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Valuation of Investments, Including the Recognition of Other than Temporary Impairments As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, we present our investments classified as available for sale, including fixed maturity and equity securities, and our investments classified as trading, such as our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value in the statements of financial position. The fair values for our public fixed maturity securities and our public equity securities are generally based on quoted market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services, which we validate for reasonability. However, for our investments in private securities such as private placement fixed maturity securities, which comprise 14% of our investments as of December 31, 2008, this information generally is not available. For these private fixed maturities, fair value is 80 determined typically by using a discounted cash flow model, which utilizes a discount rate based upon the average of spread surveys collected from private market intermediaries who are active in both primary and secondary transactions and takes into account, among other factors, the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. In determining the fair value of certain securities, the discounted cash flow model may use unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality and Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for information regarding the credit quality of the private fixed maturity securities included in our general account. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments and other investments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. In addition, investments classified as available for sale, as well as those classified as held to maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other than temporary. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and duration of the decline; the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest rate related, including credit spread widening); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we write down the value of the security to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. In addition, for our impairment review of asset backed fixed maturity securities with a credit rating below AA, we forecast our best estimate of the prospective future cash flows of the security to determine if the present value of those cash flows, discounted using the effective yield of the most recent interest accrual rate, has decreased from the previous reporting period. When a decrease from the prior reporting period has occurred and the securitys fair value is less than its carrying value, an other than temporary impairment is recognized by writing the security down to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. In both cases, this corresponding charge to earnings is referred to as an impairment. Impairments are reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net in the statements of operations and are excluded from adjusted operating income. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment, the impaired security is accounted for as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income, and included in adjusted operating income in future periods based upon the amount and timing of the expected future cash flows of the security, if the recoverable value of the investment based upon cash flows we can reasonably estimate, is greater than the carrying value of the investment after the impairment. The level of impairment losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses for a discussion of the effects of impairments on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, beginning in the third quarter of 2008, our determinations of whether a decline in value of fixed maturity securities is other than temporary have placed greater emphasis on our internal analysis of the underlying credit and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, versus the extent and duration of a decline in fair value. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity and equity securities other than temporary impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities. 81 Commercial mortgage and other loans, which comprise 14% of our investments as of December 31, 2008, are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. The valuation allowance provides for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process and includes a loan specific reserve for each non performing loan that has a specifically identified loss and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. Non performing loans include those loans for which it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan specific portion is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Valuation allowances for non performing loans are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers our past loan experience, the current credit composition of the portfolio, historical credit migration, property type diversification, default and loss severity statistics and other relevant factors. We record subsequent increases or decreases to our valuation allowances when appropriate. Adjustments to the allowance are reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net, in our statements of operations. Similar to impairment losses discussed above, the allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality for a discussion of the effects of the valuation allowance on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments for a discussion of our investment portfolio, including the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2008, related to the fixed maturity and equity securities of our general account, our policies and procedures regarding the identification of other than temporary declines in investment value, and the carrying value, credit quality, and allowance for losses related to the commercial mortgage and other loans of our general account. Policyholder Liabilities Future Policy Benefit Reserves, other than Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses We establish reserves for future policy benefits to or on behalf of policyholders in the same period in which the policy is issued. These reserves relate primarily to the traditional participating whole life policies of our Closed Block Business and the non participating whole life, term life, and life contingent structured settlement and group annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, which as of December 31, 2008, represented 43% of our total future policy benefit reserves are determined using the net level premium method as prescribed by U.S. GAAP. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both the expected future benefit payments and the expected future premiums. The mortality assumptions used are based on data from the standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used are the contractually guaranteed interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policy. Gains or losses in our results of operations resulting from deviations in actual experience compared to the experience assumed in establishing our reserves for this business are recognized in the determination of our annual dividends to these policyholders. Since the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization, these gains or losses generally do not create significant volatility in our results of operations. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, these gains or losses could result in greater volatility in our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $433 million. The future policy benefit reserves for our International Insurance segment and Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2008, represented 39% of our total future policy benefit reserves combined, relate 82 primarily to non participating whole life and term life products and are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as the present value of expected future benefits to or on behalf of policyholders plus the present value of future maintenance expenses less the present value of future net premiums. The expected future benefits and expenses are determined using assumptions as to mortality, lapse, and maintenance expense. Reserve assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the policy is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these best estimate assumptions are greater than the net U.S. GAAP liabilities (i.e., reserves net of any DAC asset), the existing net U.S. GAAP liabilities are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Mortality assumptions are generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables, as applicable; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. We review our mortality assumptions annually. Generally, we do not expect our mortality trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2008 represented 11% of our total future policy benefit reserves, relate to our non participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products. These reserves are generally determined as the present value of expected future benefits and expenses based on assumptions as to mortality, retirement, maintenance expense, and interest rates. Reserves are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the contract is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency testing by product group using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Our mortality and retirement assumptions are based on Company or industry experience; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. We generally review our mortality and retirement assumptions annually. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality or retirement trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The remaining 7% of the reserves for future policy benefits as of December 31, 2008 represented reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment and group life and disability, and long term care benefits in our Group Insurance segment. Certain of the optional living benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives, with fair values calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses Our liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2008 is reported as a component of Future policy benefits and relates primarily to the group long term disability products of our Group Insurance segment. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. We do not establish loss liabilities until a loss has occurred. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, our liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. Expected future claims payments are estimated using assumed mortality and claim termination factors and an assumed interest rate. The mortality and claim termination factors are based on standard industry tables and the Companys historical experience. Our interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Of these assumptions, our claim termination assumptions have historically had the most significant effects on our level of liability. We review our claim termination assumptions compared to actual terminations annually. These studies review actual claim termination experience over a number of years 83 with more weight placed on the actual experience in the more recent years. If actual experience results in a materially different assumption, we adjust our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses accordingly with a charge or credit to current period earnings. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. These costs primarily include commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses. We amortize these deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, over the expected lives of the contracts, based on the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums, depending on the type of contract. As of December 31, 2008, DAC in our Financial Services Businesses was $13.1 billion and DAC in our Closed Block Business was $2.0 billion. DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block Business is amortized over the expected lives of those contracts in proportion to gross margins. Gross margins consider premiums, investment returns, benefit claims, costs for policy administration, changes in reserves, and dividends to policyholders. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. We also ensure the recoverability of the DAC balance at the end of each reporting period. Many of the factors that affect gross margins are included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders. Since the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization, DAC adjustments generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, changes in gross margins and DAC amortization could result in greater volatility in our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $443 million. DAC associated with the non participating whole life and term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the non participating whole life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Insurance segment is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. We evaluate the recoverability of our DAC related to these policies as part of our premium deficiency testing. If a premium deficiency exists, we reduce DAC by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than the DAC balance, we then increase the reserve for future policy benefits by the excess, by means of a charge to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect significant deterioration in future experience, and therefore do not expect significant writedowns to the related DAC. DAC associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities and International Insurance segments is amortized over the expected life of these policies in proportion to gross profits. In calculating gross profits, we consider mortality, persistency, and other elements as well as rates of return on investments associated with these contracts and the cost of contract minimum guarantees net of, where applicable, the impact of any capital markets hedging activities related to these guarantees. We regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of our actual gross profits and changes in our assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. Adjustments to the DAC balance include our quarterly adjustments for current period experience and market performance related adjustments, as discussed below, and the impact of the annual reviews of our estimate of total gross profits. We also perform recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure the DAC balance does not exceed the present value of total estimated gross profits. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the cumulative impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. Total estimated gross profits include both actual experience and estimates of gross profits for future periods. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods costs, referred to as an adjustment for current period experience. 84 For the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent our expected claims experience over the life of these policies and are developed based on Company experience. We review and update our mortality assumptions annually. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the Individual Life segment. For the variable and universal life policies in our International Insurance segment, mortality assumptions impact to a lesser extent our estimates of future gross profits due to differences in policyholder demographics, the overall age of this block of business, the amount of mortality margins and our actual mortality experience. The DAC balance associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2008 was $3.1 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the effect of changes in our mortality assumptions and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC, and does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the unearned revenue reserve, which would partially offset the adjustments to the DAC balance reflected below. December 31, 2008 Increase/(Reduction) inDAC (in millions) Decrease in future mortality by 1% $ 39 Increase in future mortality by 1% $ (39 ) For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life. For variable annuity contracts, DAC is more sensitive to the effects of changes in our estimates of gross profits due primarily to the significant portion of our gross profits that is dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options, and the shorter average life of the contracts. This rate of return influences the fees we earn, costs we incur associated with minimum death benefit and other contractual guarantees specific to our variable annuity contracts, as well as other sources of profit. This is also true, to a lesser degree, for our variable life policies. The future rate of return assumptions used in evaluating DAC for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance products are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. If the projected future rate of return over the four year period is greater than our maximum future rate of return, we use our maximum future rate of return. In light of 2008 market conditions, we have determined that adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and any corresponding changes to the projected future rate of return assumptions for our variable annuity contracts should no longer be dependent on a comparison to a statistically generated range of estimated gross profits. Instead, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the projected future rate of return and our estimate of total gross profits are updated each quarter to reflect the result of the reversion to the mean approach. These market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits result in cumulative adjustments to prior amortization, reflecting the application of the new required rate of amortization to all prior periods gross profits. The new required rate of amortization is also applied prospectively to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods. For variable annuities products and variable life policies, as of December 31, 2008, our expected rate of return for the next four years across all asset types is 10.5% and 10.9% per annum, respectively, which are our current maximum future rates of return under the reversion to the mean approach. Included in these composite four year rates are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including limits on implied returns on equity investments that range from 85 12.8% to 15.0%. Our long term expected rate of return across all asset types for variable annuities products and variable life policies range from 8.0% to 8.2%, depending on the specific block of business, and reflect, among other assumptions, an expected rate of return of 9.5% per annum for equity investments. The DAC balance associated with our domestic variable annuity contracts was $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2008. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that we would be required assuming both an increase and decrease in our future rate of return by 100 basis points. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on the DAC balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC. Further, this information does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of our variable annuity products, or the impact that changes in such reserves may have on the DAC balance. December 31, 2008 Increase/(Reduction) inDAC (in millions) Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 37 Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (39 ) For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. In addition to DAC, we also recognize assets for deferred sales inducements and valuation of business acquired, or VOBA. The deferred sales inducements are recognized in our Individual Annuities segment and are amortized over the anticipated life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs. For additional information about our deferred sales inducements, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. VOBA represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired businesses, and is determined by estimating the net present value of future cash flows from the contracts in force at the date of acquisition. We have established a VOBA asset primarily for our acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. VOBA is amortized over the effective life of the acquired contracts. For additional information about VOBA including details on items included in our estimates of future cash flows for the various acquired businesses and its bases for amortization, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred sales inducements and VOBA are also subject to recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the capitalized amounts do not exceed the present value of total anticipated gross profits. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The test is performed at the reporting unit level which is equal to or one level below our operating segments. Reporting units that have goodwill subject to testing were the Asset Management segment, the International Insurance segments Life Planners business, the Retirement segments full service business, the Individual Annuities segment, the International Investments segment (excluding the global commodities group), and the Prudential Real Estate and Relocation (PRERS) business which is included within Corporate and Other Operations. As required by accounting guidance, the impairment testing process consists of two steps. Step 1 requires that the fair value of the reporting unit be calculated and compared to the reporting units carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, it is concluded there is no impairment and the analysis is complete. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, Step 2 of the process is completed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. 86 Step 2 utilizes business combination purchase accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment loss, if any. The fair value of reporting units calculated in Step 1 was determined using either an earnings multiple or discounted cash flow approach. The earnings multiple approach was the primary approach for the Asset Management and International Insurance reporting units, the discounted cash flow approach was primarily utilized by the Individual Annuities, PRERS, and Retirement reporting units, and a weighted average of both methods was utilized by the International Investments reporting unit. Earnings multiples used ranged from 7.3 to 13.7 times earnings while discount rates ranged from 12% to 20%. The range of multiples and discount rates reflect the diversity of our various businesses and the range of risks inherent in their cash flows. The earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. Each comparable company is analyzed based on various factors, including, but not limited to, financial risk, size, geographic diversification, profitability, adequate financial data, and an actively traded stock price. A multiple of price to earnings is developed for the comparable companies using independent analysts consensus estimates for each companys 2009 forecasted earnings. The multiple is then applied to the 2009 forecasted earnings of the reporting unit to develop a value. A control premium is then added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit. The discounted cash flow approach calculates the value of a business by applying a discount rate reflecting the market expected weighted average rate of return to the projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. The weighted average rate of return, or WARR, represents the required rate of return on total capitalization. It is comprised of a required rate of return on equity of a company and the current tax affected cost of debt, which are then weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt in the capital structure. To estimate the return on equity, we applied the Capital Asset Pricing Model, or CAPM. The CAPM is a generally accepted method for estimating an equity investors return requirement, and hence a companys cost of equity capital. CAPM is determined by beginning with the long term risk free rate of return then applying adjustments that consider the equity risk premium required for large company common stock investments as well as company specific adjustments to address volatility, small company premiums and other risks particular to a specific company. After completion of Step 1 of the analysis, it was determined that three of our reporting units, International Investments (excluding the global commodities group), PRERS, and Individual Annuities, had a fair value less than its carrying value. Accordingly, Step 2 was applied and it was determined that 100% of the goodwill within these units was impaired, resulting in charges of $123 million in International Investments, $117 million in PRERS and $97 million in Individual Annuities. As such, during 2008 we recorded a total impairment charge for goodwill of $337 million, which is included in General and administrative expenses. In applying Step 2, the fair value of individual assets and liabilities was determined either through use of quoted prices in active markets for the same or similar items or through internally generated calculations generally using discounted cash flow analyses with discount rates that reflected the risk inherent in the specific assets and liabilities. These impairments reflect the continued deterioration of financial conditions and the impact of this deterioration on expected future earnings of these businesses, including: (1) for our Individual Annuities reporting unit equity market declines and resulting additional market depreciation within separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our anticipated future fee income; (2) for our International Investments reporting unit significant market deterioration resulting in both a reduction in value and an outflow of assets under management which contributed to lower asset management fees earned in the fourth quarter and expected in future periods and (3) for our PRERS reporting unit further deterioration of the U.S. housing market, including the number of transactions and the national average home sale price which both declined in the fourth quarter, and the impact of this decline on future anticipated revenues of this business. Of the reporting units that passed Step 1, the Asset Management and International Insurance Life Planner businesses had estimated fair values that exceeded their December 31, 2008 carrying values by 241% and 77%, 87 respectively. The fair value of the Retirement Full Service business, which was calculated based upon application of the discounted cash flow approach utilizing a discount rate of 12%, exceeded the carrying value by 9%. A decline in forecasted cashflows of 9%, or an increase in the discount rate above 12.8%, could result in the Retirement business failing Step 1 and requiring a Step 2 assessment. As of December 31, 2008, we had a remaining goodwill balance of $702 million, including $444 million related to our Retirement reporting unit and $241 million related to our Asset Management reporting unit. Further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in additional goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. As indicated above, the earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. However, given the absence of pure play comparable companies and the difficulty in identifying businesses which share similar risk characteristics of our reporting units operations, it was determined that in most cases, using the discounted cash flows approach would yield the best estimate of fair value of our reporting units. In order to confirm the reasonableness of all the fair values calculated, a reconciliation of the individual reporting units fair values to the market capitalization of the Company was performed. The total calculated fair value of all reporting units and other operations was compared to the market capitalization as indicated by the Company stock price and number of shares outstanding at December 31, 2008. The difference reflected a control premium which we believe is within a range of reasonableness. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions, and to a lesser extent our discount rate assumptions, have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon asset classes and a building block approach that includes inflation, real return, a term premium, an equity risk premium, as applicable, a credit spread, as applicable, and capital appreciation, as well as active management, expenses and the effect of rebalancing. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long term rate of return for 2008 was 7.75% for our pension plans and 8.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of September 30, 2007, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long term rate of return. For the year ended December 31, 2008 Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic OtherPostretirement Cost (in millions) Increase in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ (91 ) $ (20 ) Decrease in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ 91 $ 20 We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the methodology we employ to determine our discount rate. Our assumed discount rate for 2008 was 6.25% for our pension plans and 6.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pensions and postretirement obligation as of September 30, 2007, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. 88 For the year ended December 31, 2008 Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic OtherPostretirement Cost (in millions) Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points $ (9 ) $ (4 ) Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points $ 14 $ 9 Given the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points would not be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points. For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2009 see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Corporate and Other. In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans. Taxes on Income Our effective tax rate is based on income, non taxable and non deductible items, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times from the items reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized in our financial statements. The application of U.S. GAAP requires us to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce our deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance we consider many factors, including: (1) the nature of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; (2) whether they are ordinary or capital; (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal; (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions; (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the deferred tax assets; and (7) any tax planning strategies that we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. Our accounting represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings and completion of tax audits could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate. For example, the dividends received deduction, or DRD, reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected amount determined 89 using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulations or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. This interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. FIN No. 48 is a two step process, the first step being recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. We measure the tax position as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. This measurement considers the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement using the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by one percent of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our consolidated loss from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2008 of $11 million. Our liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties which relate to tax years still subject to review by the IRS or other taxing authorities. Audit periods remain open for review until the statute of limitations has passed. Generally, for tax years which produce net operating losses, capital losses or tax credit carryforwards, or tax attributes, the statute of limitations does not close, to the extent of these tax attributes, until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year in which they are fully utilized. The completion of review or the expiration of the statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to our liability for income taxes. The statute of limitations for the 2002 and 2003 U.S. Federal tax years is set to expire in 2009. It is reasonably possible that the total net amount of unrecognized tax benefits will increase anywhere from $0 to $70 million within the next 12 months due to the expiration of the statute of limitations as well as cash receipts on settlement of the IRS examination. U.S. Federal tax years 2004 through 2008 are still open for IRS examination. On January 26, 2006, the IRS officially closed the audit of our consolidated federal income tax returns for the 1997 to 2001 periods. The statute of limitations has closed for these tax years; however, there were tax attributes which were utilized in subsequent tax years for which the statute of limitations remains open. In August 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007 54, which included, among other items, guidance on the methodology to be followed in calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. In September 2007, the IRS released Revenue Ruling 2007 61. Revenue Ruling 2007 61 suspends Revenue Ruling 2007 54 and informs taxpayers that the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS intend to address through new regulations the issues considered in Revenue Ruling 2007 54, including the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. In December 2006, the IRS completed all fieldwork with regards to its examination of the consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for tax years 2002 and 2003. The final report was initially submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation for their review in April 2007. The final report was resubmitted in March 2008 and again in April 2008. The Joint Committee returned the report to the IRS for additional review of an industry issue regarding the methodology for calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The IRS completed its review of the issue and proposed an adjustment with respect to the calculation of the DRD. In order to expedite receipt of an income tax refund related to the 2002 and 2003 years, we have agreed to such adjustment. Nevertheless, we believe that our return position is technically correct. Therefore, we intend to file a protective refund claim to recover the taxes associated with the agreed upon adjustment and to pursue such other actions as appropriate. The report, with the adjustment, was submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation in 90 October 2008. We were advised on January 2, 2009 that the Joint Committee completed its consideration of the report and has taken no exception to the conclusions reached by the IRS. Accordingly, the final report was processed and a refund was received. The statute of limitations for these years will close on December 31, 2009. In January 2007, the IRS began an examination of the consolidated U.S. federal income tax years 2004 through 2006. For the consolidated U.S. federal income tax years 2007 and 2008, we participated in the IRSs Compliance Assurance Program, or CAP. Under CAP, the IRS assigns an examination team to review completed transactions contemporaneously during the 2007 and 2008 tax years in order to reach agreement with us on how they should be reported in the tax return. If disagreements arise, accelerated resolutions programs are available to resolve the disagreements in a timely manner before the tax return is filed. It is managements expectation this program will shorten the time period between the filing of our federal income tax return and the IRSs completion of its examination of the return. Our affiliates in Japan file separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations is 5 years from when the return is filed. During 2007, the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau concluded a routine tax audit of the tax returns of Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. for the three years ended March 31, 2005 through 2007, as well as a tax audit of the Prudential Financial Inc. Japan Representative office for the tax years ending in 2005 through 2007. The Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau is currently conducting a routine tax audit of the tax returns of Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. for its tax years ending March 31, 2004 to March 31, 2008. Our affiliates in Korea file separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations is five years from when the return is filed. A local district office in the Korean tax authority has concluded a routine tax audit of the local taxes for tax years ending March 31, 2004 through March 31, 2007 of Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. Reserves for Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Accounting Pronouncements Adopted See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements, including the adoption of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 91 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for the periods presented. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Financial Services Businesses by segment: Individual Annuities $ (1,218 ) $ 672 $ 539 Retirement (1,109 ) 364 425 Asset Management 272 720 546 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division (2,055 ) 1,756 1,510 Individual Life (173 ) 548 482 Group Insurance 138 247 211 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division (35 ) 795 693 International Insurance 1,920 1,903 1,607 International Investments (53 ) 227 176 Total International Insurance and Investments Division 1,867 2,130 1,783 Corporate and Other (911 ) (285 ) 5 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses (1,134 ) 4,396 3,991 Income tax expense (benefit) (454 ) 1,145 1,126 Income (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses (680 ) 3,251 2,865 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes (447 ) 246 208 Income (loss) from continuing operations for Financial Services Businesses (1,127 ) 3,497 3,073 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 31 15 71 Net income (loss) Financial Services Businesses $ (1,096 ) $ 3,512 $ 3,144 Basic income (loss) from continuing operations per share Common Stock $ (2.49 ) $ 7.72 $ 6.49 Diluted income (loss) from continuing operations per share Common Stock $ (2.49 ) $ 7.58 $ 6.36 Basic net income (loss) per share Common Stock $ (2.42 ) $ 7.75 $ 6.63 Diluted net income (loss) per share Common Stock $ (2.42 ) $ 7.61 $ 6.50 Closed Block Business: Income from operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business $ 16 $ 290 $ 403 Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) 100 119 Income from continuing operations for Closed Block Business 23 190 284 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 2 Net income Closed Block Business $ 23 $ 192 $ 284 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations per share Class B Stock $ (16.00 ) $ 68.50 $ 108.00 Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share Class B Stock $ (16.00 ) $ 69.50 $ 108.00 Consolidated: Net income (loss) $ (1,073 ) $ 3,704 $ 3,428 Results of Operations Financial Services Businesses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses decreased $4.624 billion, from income of $3.497 billion in 2007 to a loss of $1.127 billion in 2008, reflecting the impact of unfavorable market conditions on the results of our segments and investment portfolio. The decrease reflects pre tax net investment losses in 2008, within both our general account and proprietary investments, and impairments in 2008 related to goodwill and declines in value of investments in certain operating joint ventures. In addition, the decrease reflects reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and increased amortization of deferred policy 92 acquisition and other costs reflecting an update of actuarial assumptions primarily due to the impact of market conditions. Results for 2008 include our share of costs associated with a settlement relating to auction rate securities of the retail brokerage joint venture with Wachovia. Partially offsetting these items were improved results from continued growth in our international insurance operations. On a diluted per share basis, income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $(2.49) per share of Common Stock compared to $7.58 per share of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2007. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using adjusted operating income as described in Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses, below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments, below. The direct equity adjustment increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As described more fully in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. The holders of the Common Stock will benefit from the direct equity adjustment as long as reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business are less than the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Generally, as statutory cash premiums and policies in force in the Closed Block Business decline, we expect the benefit to the Common Stock holders from the direct equity adjustment to decline accordingly. If the reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business exceed the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement, the direct equity adjustment will reduce income available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses increased $424 million, from $3.073 billion in 2006 to $3.497 billion in 2007. The increase reflects improved investment results, continued growth in our international operations, the benefit of higher asset based fees, a greater contribution from the variable annuity business acquired from The Allstate Corporation, for which the prior year period includes results from only the June 1, 2006 date of acquisition, as well as increased earnings from our retail brokerage joint venture with Wachovia, including the benefit of lower retained expenses in 2007. Partially offsetting these items were increased general and administrative expenses, consistent with the growth in the business, and a lower level of net realized investment gains. On a diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $7.58 per share of Common Stock increased from $6.36 per share of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2006. This increase reflects the increase in earnings discussed above and the benefit of a lower number of shares of Common Stock outstanding due to our share repurchase program. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using adjusted operating income as described in Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains, below. The direct equity adjustment increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $68 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As described more fully in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. The holders of the Common Stock will benefit from the direct equity adjustment as long as reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business are less than the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Generally, as statutory cash premiums and policies in force in the Closed Block Business decline, we expect the benefit to the Common Stock holders from the 93 direct equity adjustment to decline accordingly. If the reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business exceed the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement, the direct equity adjustment will reduce income available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes. Results of Operations Closed Block Business 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations attributable to the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2008, was $23 million, or $(16.00) per share of Class B stock, compared to $190 million, or $68.50 per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2007. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations attributable to the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2007, was $190 million, or $68.50 per share of Class B stock, compared to $284 million, or $108.00 per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2006. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $68 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. Segment Measures In managing our business, we analyze operating performance separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments operating performance using adjusted operating income. Results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted operating income does not equate to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures or net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, is our measure of segment performance. Adjusted operating income is calculated for the segments of the Financial Services Businesses by adjusting each segments income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the following items: realized investment gains (losses), net, except as indicated below, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; the contribution to income/loss of divested businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP; and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes Realized investment gains (losses), net, except as indicated below, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit related and interest rate related gains and losses from sales of securities. Impairments and losses from sales of credit impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can 94 vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities, as well as our tax profile. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. Similarly, adjusted operating income excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to the contractholders. Adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses because they are not relevant to understanding our ongoing operating results. The contributions to income/loss of wind down businesses that we have not divested remain in adjusted operating income. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results. As noted above, certain Realized investment gains (losses), net, are included in adjusted operating income. We include in adjusted operating income the portion of our realized investment gains and losses on derivatives that arise from the termination of contracts used to hedge our foreign currency earnings in the same period that the expected earnings emerge. Similarly, we include in adjusted operating income the portion of our realized investment gains and losses on derivatives that represent current period yield adjustments. The realized investment gains or losses from products that are free standing derivatives, or contain embedded derivatives, along with the realized investment gains or losses from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of these products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income also includes those realized investment gains and losses that represent profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors. Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Annuities segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,999 $ 2,503 $ 2,101 Benefits and expenses 3,076 1,781 1,515 Adjusted operating income (1,077 ) 722 586 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (153 ) (62 ) (72 ) Related charges(1)(2) 12 12 25 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ (1,218 ) $ 672 $ 539 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired. On June 1, 2006, we acquired the variable annuity business of The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate, through a reinsurance transaction for $635 million of total consideration, consisting primarily of a $628 million ceding commission. Our initial investment in the business was approximately $600 million, consisting of the total consideration, offset by the related tax benefits and an additional contribution of $94 million to meet regulatory capital requirements. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this acquisition. 95 Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $1.799 billion, from $722 million in 2007 to a loss of $1.077 billion in 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2008 included charges of $1.160 billion, reflecting the impact of the annual reviews of, and market performance adjustment to, the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. The total charge of $1.160 billion in 2008 included $380 million of charges from the annual reviews, which were completed in the third quarter of 2008, and $780 million of charges relating to additional market performance adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2007 included $30 million of benefits from the annual reviews. The charges from the annual reviews of $380 million in 2008 included $265 million relating to reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and $115 million related to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. The charge relating to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs primarily reflects the impact on gross profits of market value decreases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. The reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products also reflects this impact, as well as increased cost of expected income and death benefit claims due to lower expected lapse rates for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. Adjusted operating income for 2007 included $30 million of benefits from the annual reviews, reflecting market value increases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, and decreased cost of actual and expected death claims, partially offset by the impact of model refinements and higher expected lapse rates for the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. As discussed above, results for 2008 also include $780 million of charges associated with market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance in the fourth quarter of 2008. In light of recent market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we determined that adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and any corresponding changes to the future rate of return assumptions should no longer be dependent on a comparison to a statistically generated range of estimated gross profits. Instead, for purposes of evaluating deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, total estimated gross profits are updated for these items each quarter. Market value declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 decreased our estimates of total gross profits by establishing a new, lower starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating gross profits for future periods. The decrease in our estimate of total gross profits results in a higher required rate of amortization, which is applied to all prior periods gross profits. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization is recognized in the current period. In addition, the higher rate of amortization will also be applied to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods which, all else being equal, will result in lower net profits in future periods. We continue to derive our future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. However, beginning in the second half of 2008, the projected future rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for most contract groups was greater than 10.5%, our current maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. In those cases we utilized the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean, and further decreasing our estimate of total gross profits. Further or continued market declines could result in additional market depreciation within our separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our gross profits, as well as additional adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Given that the estimates of future gross profits for most contract groups are already based upon our maximum future rate of return assumption as discussed above, all else being equal, further market movements could have a greater impact on the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, in comparison to prior periods. 96 The above adjustment for market performance included $443 million relating to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and $337 million relating to reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Included within the $443 million of increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs is a $234 million loss recognition charge to further reduce the balance of valuation of business acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required as the VOBA balance for those contracts otherwise would have been in excess of the present value of estimated future gross profits. Since the VOBA balance for the Allstate contracts now equals the present value of estimated future gross profits, we expect gross profits for these contracts in future periods will be essentially offset by the related VOBA amortization. Absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $609 million from 2007. Contributing to this decrease is a $481 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features. The primary risk exposures of these benefit features relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in their original pricing, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, timing of annuitization and withdrawals, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. Together with certain product design elements, our capital markets hedging program is designed to limit our exposure to the equity market, interest rate, and market volatility risk inherent in these products, as part of our overall risk management strategy. The unfavorable variance in our hedging results reflects a charge of $438 million in 2008 compared to a benefit of $43 million in 2007, and was largely due to unfavorable basis risk, primarily reflecting the underperformance of the underlying separate account funds relative to the performance of the market indices we utilized as a basis for developing our hedging strategy, driven by financial market conditions in 2008. The charge in 2008 includes an $86 million benefit for an update of the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, primarily relating to an update of implied volatility ratios to better match the actual equity indices referenced. Given the sensitivity of the fair value of both the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions to financial market conditions, the variance related to the mark to market of these items for a given period will be largely dependent on the financial market conditions throughout the period. For additional information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with our living benefit features, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in fee income, driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The declines in separate account assets were due to market depreciation and transfers of balances to a fixed rate general account option. The transfer of balances to our general account relates to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features, which, as part of the overall product design, transferred approximately $10 billion of investments in 2008, out of the separate accounts and into our general account due to equity market declines. Higher average annuity account values invested in our general account resulting from these transfers also led to improved investment results, which partially offset the decrease in fee income. Also serving as a partial offset to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other costs, absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above. The decrease primarily reflects the impact on gross profits of the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features and the decrease in fee income, partially offset by the quarterly adjustments for current period experience, as explained below. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the cumulative impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Total estimated gross profits, including actual experience and estimates for future periods, are used as the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. In addition, total estimated revenues and guaranteed benefit claims, which are components of total gross profits, are used for establishing the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods costs, referred to as an adjustment for current period experience, may be required. Adjusted operating income for 2008 includes charges of $174 million relating to these quarterly adjustments, due to less 97 favorable than expected experience, while 2007 includes benefits of $53 million due to better than expected experience. The adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs totaled $81 million in 2008 and resulted from less favorable than expected gross profits, due primarily to lower than expected fee income and the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features. In addition to these drivers, the adjustments for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2008, which totaled $93 million, also reflected higher actual contract guarantee claims costs in 2008, primarily driven by financial market conditions. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we impaired the entire $97 million of goodwill related to our acquisition of the variable annuity business of Allstate. This impairment is reflective of continued deterioration of financial market conditions, which resulted in additional market depreciation within our separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our fee income and overall expected future earnings for our individual annuities business. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $136 million, from $586 million in 2006 to $722 million in 2007. Results for both periods include the impact of annual reviews of our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Adjusted operating income for 2007 included a $30 million benefit from this annual review, reflecting market value increases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, and decreased cost of actual and expected death claims, partially offset by the impact of model refinements and higher expected lapse rates for the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. Adjusted operating income for 2006 included a $37 million benefit from the annual review, primarily reflecting improved net interest spread from increased investment yields. Absent the effect of the annual reviews discussed above, adjusted operating income for 2007 increased $143 million from 2006. Adjusted operating income from the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate, excluding the impact of the annual review discussed above, increased $27 million, reflecting a $81 million contribution for 2007, compared to $54 million for 2006, which reflects results only for the initial seven months of operations from the date of acquisition. The remainder of the increase came primarily from higher fee income driven by higher average asset balances from market appreciation and positive net asset flows in our variable annuity account values. Also contributing to the increase was a $17 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, net of amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Partially offsetting these items was an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting increased gross profits in 2007, and an increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, reflecting higher distribution and asset management costs associated with growth in variable annuity account values, as well as growth of the business. In addition, interest expense increased driven by higher borrowings related to growth of the business, and net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholders account balances, decreased primarily as a result of declining annuity account values invested in our general account, reflecting our emphasis on sales of variable annuities together with asset allocation requirements associated with the living benefit features we offer in our variable annuity products. The contribution of the acquired Allstate business to adjusted operating income for 2007, excluding the impact of the annual review discussed above, consists of revenues of $383 million and benefits and expenses of $302 million. Revenues from the acquired business consisted primarily of policy charges and fees of $254 million, net investment income of $70 million and asset management fees and other income of $54 million. Benefits and expenses from this business, excluding the impact of the annual review discussed above, consisted primarily of general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, of $204 million and policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, of $93 million. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $504 million, from $2.503 billion in 2007 to $1.999 billion in 2008. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $718 million, including a $481 million unfavorable variance in the 98 mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, as discussed above. Also contributing to the decrease in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income is a decrease in fee income driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts due to market depreciation and the transfer of balances to our general account relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features, as discussed above. Partially offsetting this decrease, net investment income increased $220 million reflecting higher average annuity account values invested in our general account, also resulting from these transfers. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $402 million, from $2.101 billion in 2006 to $2.503 billion in 2007, including increased revenues of $162 million related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. The remainder of the increase in revenues came primarily from a $314 million increase in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income reflecting an increase in variable annuity account values driven by changes in average market value and positive net flows. Included in the increase in asset management fees and other income is a $37 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features. Partially offsetting these items was a $62 million decrease in net investment income, excluding the impact from the business acquired from Allstate, primarily as a result of declining annuity account values invested in our general account, as discussed above. Benefits and Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1.295 billion, from $1.781 billion in 2007 to $3.076 billion in 2008. Absent the impact of the annual reviews and the market performance adjustments discussed above, which account for $1.190 billion of the increase, benefits and expenses increased $105 million. On this basis, policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $110 million primarily reflecting the impact of the quarterly adjustments for current period experience relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, as discussed above. Also on this basis, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $100 million primarily reflecting higher average annuity account values invested in our general account resulting from transfers relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features. In addition, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, for 2008 includes the $97 million goodwill impairment. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above, primarily reflecting the impact on gross profits of the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with some of our living benefit features and the decrease in fee income, partially offset by the quarterly adjustments for current period experience relating to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $266 million, from $1.515 billion in 2006 to $1.781 billion in 2007. Excluding the impact of the annual reviews discussed above and increased benefits and expenses of $135 million related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate, benefits and expenses increased $124 million from 2006 to 2007. Contributing to this increase is a $88 million increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, due to higher distribution and asset management costs associated with growth in variable annuity account values, and growth of the business. Also contributing to this increase was a $58 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs reflecting increased gross profits in the current period. In addition, interest expense increased $9 million, driven by higher borrowings related to growth of the business. Partially offsetting these items was an $31 million reduction in policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, primarily reflecting a decrease in interest credited to policyholders resulting from declining annuity account values invested in our general account, as discussed above. 99 Account Values The following table sets forth changes in account values for the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value, and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Variable Annuities(1): Beginning total account value $ 80,330 $ 74,555 $ 50,778 Sales 10,208 11,678 9,593 Surrenders and withdrawals (8,000 ) (9,568 ) (7,722 ) Net sales 2,208 2,110 1,871 Benefit payments (1,057 ) (1,131 ) (918 ) Net flows 1,151 979 953 Change in market value, interest credited and other activity (20,353 ) 6,076 7,448 Policy charges (1,121 ) (1,280 ) (936 ) Acquisition 16,312 Ending total account value(2) $ 60,007 $ 80,330 $ 74,555 Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value $ 3,488 $ 3,748 $ 3,991 Sales 121 73 119 Surrenders and withdrawals (276 ) (286 ) (313 ) Net redemptions (155 ) (213 ) (194 ) Benefit payments (160 ) (167 ) (176 ) Net flows (315 ) (380 ) (370 ) Interest credited and other activity 127 124 131 Policy charges (5 ) (4 ) (4 ) Ending total account value $ 3,295 $ 3,488 $ 3,748 (1) Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments through defined contribution plan products are included with such products within the Retirement segment. (2) As of December 31, 2008, variable annuity account values are invested in equity funds ($18 billion or 30%), market value adjusted or fixed rate options ($14 billion or 24%), balanced funds ($13 billion or 21%), bond funds ($9 billion or 15%), and other ($6 billion or 10%). Variable annuity account values with living benefit features were $33.1 billion, $37.2 billion, and $28.4 billion as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the net amount at risk related to our variable annuity benefit features. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $63.3 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $20.5 billion from December 31, 2007. The decrease came primarily from decreases in the market value of customers variable annuities due to significant equity market declines. Individual variable annuity gross sales decreased by $1.5 billion, from $11.7 billion in 2007 to $10.2 billion in 2008 and individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals decreased by $1.6 billion, from $9.6 billion in 2007 to $8.0 billion in 2008, reflecting the decrease in both inflows and outflows which generally occurs during periods of market volatility and equity market decline. The decrease in individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals also reflects lower lapses for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $83.8 billion as of December 31, 2007, an increase of $5.5 billion from December 31, 2006. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities and positive variable annuity net flows. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $2.1 billion, from $9.6 billion in 2006 to $11.7 billion in 2007, reflecting increased sales of $838 million related to the business acquired from Allstate, increased sales from our optional living benefit product features, and growth of our distribution relationships. Individual variable 100 annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased by $1.9 billion, from $7.7 billion in 2006 to $9.6 billion in 2007, including increased surrenders and withdrawals of $1.1 billion related to the business acquired from Allstate, as well as the impact of higher average account values due to market appreciation. Retirement Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retirement segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 4,844 $ 4,708 $ 4,379 Benefits and expenses 4,313 4,226 3,869 Adjusted operating income 531 482 510 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (1,076 ) (128 ) (138 ) Related charges(2) 7 (1 ) 5 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) (1,364 ) 97 9 Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) 793 (86 ) 39 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (1,109 ) $ 364 $ 425 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. On April 1, 2004, we acquired the retirement business of CIGNA Corporation for cash consideration of $2.1 billion. Beginning April 1, 2004, the results of the former CIGNA retirement business have been included in our consolidated results. The majority of these results are reflected within our Retirement segment, as discussed below, and the remaining portion is reflected in our Asset Management segment. In addition, as a result of a change in the reinsurance arrangement governing the purchase of the guaranteed cost business from CIGNA, the results of this business that were previously presented on a net basis in Asset management fees and other income are, beginning on April 1, 2006, presented on a gross basis in our results of operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this acquisition, including a discussion of the change in the reinsurance arrangement associated with the guaranteed cost business. On December 31, 2007 we acquired a portion of Union Bank of California, N.A.s, or UBOCs, retirement business, including $7.3 billion in full service retirement account values, for $103 million of cash consideration. The retirement account values related to this acquisition primarily consist of mutual funds and other client assets we administer, and are not reported on our balance sheet. The integration of this business was completed in the second quarter of 2008. On October 10, 2008, we acquired MullinTBG Insurance Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including nonqualified executive deferred compensation plans. The acquisition included $8.9 billion of nonqualified full service retirement account values that we administer, which are not reported on our balance sheet. 101 Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for the Retirement segment increased $49 million, from $482 million in 2007 to $531 million in 2008. Included within adjusted operating income in 2007 is an $82 million charge reflecting payments made to plan clients related to a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager, State Street Global Advisors, Inc., or SSgA. This action seeks, among other relief, restitution of certain losses experienced by plan clients attributable to certain investment funds managed by SSgA as to which we believe SSgA employed investment strategies and practices that were misrepresented by SSgA and failed to exercise the standard of care of a prudent investment manager. In order to protect the interests of the affected plans and their participants while we pursue these remedies, we have made payments to affected plan clients that authorize us to proceed on their behalf. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2008 includes a $29 million benefit from a reduction in the amortization of valuation of business acquired due to a cumulative adjustment relating to the calculation of actual and expected gross profits. Excluding the items discussed above, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $62 million compared to 2007, reflecting lower adjusted operating income in our full service business, partially offset by improved results for our institutional investment products business. The decrease relating to the full service business was primarily attributable to higher general and administrative expenses, driven by expenses incurred to expand our product and service capabilities and to support several large client sales in 2008, and lower asset management fees, driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values primarily resulting from equity market depreciation. Also contributing to the decrease in the full service business was a $15 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts. This unfavorable variance includes the impact of 2008 equity markets on these benefit features, prior to the implementation of our hedging of this equity market risk during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2008 includes an $8 million loss relating to the acquired retirement business of UBOC. Results from this acquisition include costs related to an interim service agreement with UBOC, which covered the integration period, as well as $6 million of transition costs. Improved results in our institutional investment products business were driven by a greater benefit from reserve refinements of $50 million, primarily reflecting updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, as well as more favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business. Partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for the Retirement segment decreased $28 million, from $510 million in 2006 to $482 million in 2007. Included within adjusted operating income in 2007 is an $82 million charge related to payments made to plan clients associated with a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager, as discussed above. Excluding this charge, adjusted operating income for 2007 increased $54 million compared to 2006, reflecting improved results from both our full service and institutional investment products businesses. The full service business benefited primarily from higher fees, driven by increases in full service retirement account values related primarily to market appreciation. Contributing to the increase to a lesser extent was the lack of transition expenses in 2007, as 2006 included $6 million of transition expenses related to the completion of the integration of the retirement business acquired from CIGNA. Partially offsetting these items within the full service business was an increase in general and administrative expenses driven by expenses incurred to expand our product and service capabilities. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2006 included a benefit from the disposition of real estate within an investment joint venture. In our institutional investment products business, a greater contribution from investment results, primarily due to a larger base of invested assets and higher portfolio yields, and improved case experience were partially offset by a decrease in the level of mortgage prepayment income and a lower benefit from reserve refinements reflecting updates of client census data on a group annuity block of business. Contributing to the higher portfolio yields in 2007 is the benefit from the sale of lower yielding bonds and reinvestment of proceeds at higher available interest rates, which primarily occurred in the first half of 2006. The realized investment losses generated from these sales are excluded from adjusted operating income. For a discussion of realized investment gains and losses, including those related to changes in interest rates, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. 102 Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $136 million, from $4.708 billion in 2007 to $4.844 billion in 2008. Premiums increased $261 million, driven by higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium group annuity sales, and resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Partially offsetting this increase, net investment income decreased $112 million, primarily reflecting lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets, lower balances of investments supported by borrowings, negative earnings in 2008 relating to a single equity method investment in a fixed income fund and an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. These items, resulting in a decrease to net investment income, were partially offset by a larger base of invested assets, driven by sales of guaranteed investment and structured settlement products in the institutional and retail markets and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account products to our general account stable value products, and the accretion into net investment income in 2008 of $23 million relating to fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value, the related methodology for recording fixed maturity other than temporary impairments and the subsequent accretion into net investment income, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses below. In addition, policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income decreased $13 million, primarily due to a decline in asset management fees, driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values primarily resulting from equity market depreciation, as well as full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account products to our general account stable value products. Also contributing to the decline was an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, driven by financial market conditions in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreases in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income was $22 million of revenues associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC and $12 million of revenues associated with the acquired operations of MullinTBG, as well as increased net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $329 million, from $4.379 billion in 2006 to $4.708 billion in 2007. Net investment income increased $251 million, primarily due to a larger base of invested assets due to sales of guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets and higher portfolio yields, partially offset by a benefit in 2006 from the disposition of real estate within an investment joint venture and decreases in the level of mortgage prepayment income. Also contributing to the increase in net investment income is $24 million relating to the change in the reinsurance arrangement with respect to the guaranteed cost business acquired from CIGNA. Due to this change, the results of this business, which were previously presented on a net basis in Asset management fees and other income are, beginning on April 1, 2006, presented on a gross basis in our results of operations. In addition, asset management fees and other income increased $50 million reflecting growth in fees due to higher full service retirement account values primarily resulting from market appreciation. Premiums increased $35 million, driven by higher single premium group annuity and life contingent structured settlement sales, and resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Benefits and Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $87 million, from $4.226 billion in 2007 to $4.313 billion in 2008. Policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $176 million primarily reflecting the increase in premiums on higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium group annuity sales discussed above, partially offset by an increased benefit from reserve refinements primarily reflecting updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, more favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business and lower interest on general account reserves. In addition, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $71 million, primarily reflecting a greater base of guaranteed investment products sold in the institutional and retail markets and higher full service general account stable value product account values from participant transfers from equity based separate account products, partially offset by lower crediting rates on 103 floating rate guaranteed investment product liabilities due to rate resets. Partially offsetting these increases was a $123 million decrease in interest expense, primarily reflecting lower borrowings used to support investments and lower interest rates on these borrowings. Also serving as a partial offset, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, decreased $43 million, including the impact of the $82 million charge in 2007 related to payments made to plan clients associated with a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager and the $29 million benefit in 2008 from a cumulative adjustment relating to valuation of business acquired discussed above. Excluding these items, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization increased $68 million, driven by expenses incurred to expand our full service product and service capabilities, including costs associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC and acquired operations of MullinTBG, expenses incurred to support several large client sales in 2008 and a $12 million charge in 2008 for one time costs associated with certain cost reduction programs. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, includes $30 million of costs in 2008 associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC, including costs related to an interim services agreement with UBOC, which covered the integration period, as well as $6 million of transition costs, and $13 million of costs related to the operations of MullinTGB. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $357 million, from $3.869 billion in 2006 to $4.226 billion in 2007. Interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $220 million, primarily reflecting higher interest credited on a greater base of guaranteed investment products sold in the institutional and retail markets and higher crediting rates on general account liabilities. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $88 million primarily reflecting payments made to plan clients related to a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager, as discussed above, and increased expenses incurred to expand our full service product and service capabilities. In addition, policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $41 million primarily reflecting the increase in premiums on higher single premium group annuity and life contingent structured settlement sales discussed above, as well as a lower benefit from reserve refinements relating to updates of client census data on a group annuity block of business. Also contributing to the increase in policyholders benefits is a $21 million increase due to the change in the reinsurance arrangement with respect to the guaranteed cost business acquired from CIGNA discussed above. These increases in policyholders benefits were partially offset by improved case experience in 2007. Sales Results and Account Values The following table shows the changes in the account values and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are deposits and sales or additions, as applicable, minus withdrawals and benefits. These concepts do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Full Service(1): Beginning total account value $ 112,192 $ 97,430 $ 88,385 Deposits and sales 18,941 14,692 16,156 Withdrawals and benefits (15,051 ) (13,749 ) (15,989 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income(2) (25,259 ) 6,563 8,878 Acquisition(3) 8,915 7,256 Ending total account value $ 99,738 $ 112,192 $ 97,430 Net additions (withdrawals) $ 3,890 $ 943 $ 167 Institutional Investment Products(4): Beginning total account value $ 51,591 $ 50,269 $ 48,080 Additions(5) 5,738 4,973 5,993 Withdrawals and benefits (7,392 ) (5,866 ) (4,881 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income 2,198 2,765 2,247 Other(6) (1,644 ) (550 ) (1,170 ) Ending total account value $ 50,491 $ 51,591 $ 50,269 Net additions (withdrawals) $ (1,654 ) $ (893 ) $ 1,112 104 (1) Ending total account value for the full service business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $4.6 billion, $5.7 billion and $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (2) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income includes $511 million for 2007 representing a transfer from Institutional Investment Products to Full Service as a result of one clients change in contract form. (3) On December 31, 2007 we acquired a portion of UBOCs retirement business, as discussed above. On October 10, 2008 we acquired MullinTBG, as discussed above. (4) Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $5.3 billion, $5.5 billion and $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (5) Additions includes $700 million for 2008 representing transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. This addition is offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. (6) Other includes transfers from (to) the Asset Management segment of $432 million, $185 million and $(1,475) million for 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. Other also includes $(511) million for 2007 representing a transfer from Institutional Investment Products to Full Service as a result of one clients change in contract form. Other also includes $(700) million in 2008 representing transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. The $(700) million transfer is offset within Additions, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. Remaining amounts for all periods presented primarily represent changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $99.7 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $12.5 billion from December 31, 2007. The decrease in account values was driven primarily by a decrease in the market value of customer funds due to declines in the equity markets, partially offset by $8.9 billion of account values related to the acquisition of MullinTBG and net additions of $3.9 billion. Net additions increased $2.947 billion, from $943 million in 2007 to $3.890 billion in 2008, reflecting higher new plan sales and participant contributions, partially offset by higher plan lapses. New plan sales in 2008 included ten large client sales totaling $4.5 billion, with each client sale therein totaling more than $100 million. Plan lapses in 2008 included $1.1 billion of lapses relating to account values acquired from UBOC. These lapses primarily occurred during the final stages of the conversion of acquired account values to our systems platform, which was completed in the second quarter of 2008. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $50.5 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $1.1 billion from December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting net withdrawals of $1.7 billion, driven by the impact of scheduled withdrawals in our guaranteed investment products, and declines in the value of asset balances for externally managed accounts. Interest on general account business partially offset these decreases. Net withdrawals increased $761 million, from net withdrawals of $893 million in 2007 to net withdrawals of $1.654 billion in 2008. This increase primarily reflects higher scheduled withdrawals in our guaranteed investment products, partially offset by higher additions due to the 2008 transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. Sales of our guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets have been negatively impacted by unfavorable capital markets conditions, in particular during the second half of 2008 as the stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $112.2 billion as of December 31, 2007, an increase of $14.8 billion from December 31, 2006. The increase in account values was driven primarily by an increase in the market value of customer funds and $7.3 billion of account values acquired from UBOC. Net additions (withdrawals) increased $776 million, from net additions of $167 million in 2006 to net additions of $943 million in 2007, reflecting lower plan lapses, partially offset by lower new plan sales. Net additions in 2006 included three large client sales totaling $2.7 billion, and four large plan terminations totaling $2.7 billion primarily associated with merger and plan consolidation activity. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $51.6 billion as of December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.3 billion from December 31, 2006, primarily reflecting interest on general account business and an increase in the market value of customer funds, partially offset by net withdrawals of $893 million. Net additions (withdrawals) decreased $2.0 billion, from net additions of $1.1 billion in 2006 to net withdrawals of $893 million in 2007. This decrease reflects lower additions driven by lower sales of guaranteed investment products in the institutional markets due to unfavorable market conditions in 2007, as well as higher withdrawals from fee based account values. 105 Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,686 $ 2,319 $ 1,991 Expenses 1,454 1,618 1,441 Adjusted operating income 232 701 550 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 40 19 (4 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 272 $ 720 $ 546 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. As a result of this decision, these operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, are excluded from the Asset Management segment and included in Corporate and Other operations as a divested business. Accordingly, these results are excluded from adjusted operating income, with prior period results being adjusted to reflect such reclassification. These operations had pre tax losses of $158 million and $63 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment. Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $469 million, from $701 million in 2007 to $232 million in 2008. The decrease in adjusted operating income is largely attributable to unfavorable results from the segments proprietary investing business. Results of the segments proprietary investing business decreased $352 million, primarily due to a decline in the value of fixed income investments of $274 million, including impairments on collateralized debt obligations of $40 million. The decrease in fixed income investments includes a decline of $237 million in a fixed income fund, from income of $65 million in 2007, to a loss of $172 million in 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, two entities within the Asset Management segment made a request to redeem their entire investment from this fixed income fund, which aggregate investments were $185 million at December 31, 2008. The fixed income fund has suspended redemptions. Due to market conditions, the amount and timing of the payment of redemption proceeds cannot be predicted at this time. We also reduced certain equity investments in the fourth quarter of 2008. Also contributing to the decline in proprietary investing results were losses on equity investments of $22 million in 2008, a decrease of $46 million from 2007. In addition, real estate proprietary investing decreased $31 million, primarily from co investments, reflecting a decline in real estate values. Results in 2008 also reflect lower performance based incentive fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, in addition to higher expenses. These decreases were partially offset by increased asset management fees primarily from institutional customer assets as a result of net asset flows, as well as higher income related to securities lending activities. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $151 million, from $550 million in 2006 to $701 million in 2007. Results for 2007 benefited from an increase in asset management fees of $107 million, primarily from institutional and retail customer assets as a result of increased asset values due to market appreciation and net asset flows. Adjusted operating income also benefited from increased transaction fees 106 primarily from real estate investment management activities and increased revenues from the segments proprietary investing business. These items were partially offset by higher expenses, including performance related compensation costs. Revenues The following tables set forth the Asset Management segments revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under Operating Results, by type, asset management fees by source and assets under management for the periods indicated. In managing our business we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to U.S. GAAP assets, because a principal source of our revenues are fees based on assets under management. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Revenues by type: Asset management fees by source: Institutional customers $ 540 $ 488 $ 426 Retail customers(1) 307 347 310 General account 268 246 238 Total asset management fees 1,115 1,081 974 Incentive fees 71 188 251 Transaction fees 76 92 46 Proprietary investing (128 ) 204 155 Commercial mortgage(2) 31 76 70 Total incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues 50 560 522 Service, distribution and other revenues(3) 521 678 495 Total revenues $ 1,686 $ 2,319 $ 1,991 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Includes mortgage origination and spread lending revenues of our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business. (3) Includes revenues under a contractual arrangement with Wachovia Securities, to provide essentially a fixed fee for managed account services. This arrangement expired with respect to most services provided as of July 1, 2008. Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $21 million and $40 million, respectively, for those managed account services. Also includes payments from Wachovia Corporation under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia Corporation. The agreement extends for ten years after termination of the joint venture. The revenue from Wachovia Corporation under this agreement was $55 million in 2008, $51 million in 2007 and $51 million in 2006. December 31,2008 December 31,2007 (in billions) Assets Under Management (at fair market value): Institutional customers(1) $ 161.2 $ 176.4 Retail customers(2) 61.6 86.6 General account 172.6 175.5 Total $ 395.4 $ 438.5 (1) Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. (2) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. 107 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $633 million, from $2.319 billion in 2007 to $1.686 billion in 2008. Revenues from proprietary investing decreased $332 million, driven by investment losses in fixed income and equity investments. Incentive fees decreased $117 million primarily related to institutional real estate funds as a result of adverse real estate market conditions. A portion of these incentive based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December 31, 2008, $123 million of cumulative incentive fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $130 million as of December 31, 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2008, adjustments of $25 million related to previously recognized incentive fees contributed to the decline in incentive fees resulting from fund performance. In addition, commercial mortgage revenues decreased $45 million due to unfavorable credit market conditions which resulted in decreases in the value of investments held, partially offset by higher net investment income from higher average balances. Service, distribution and other revenues decreased $157 million, including a reduction in revenue of $150 million, which consists of a change in the service fee arrangement whereby Wachovia Securities is now paying investment managers directly, with a corresponding decrease in expense, as well as lower revenues in certain consolidated real estate and fixed income funds, which were fully offset by lower expenses related to minority interest in these funds. Service, distribution and other revenues includes payments from Wachovia Corporation under an agreement implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia Corporation. The terms of the agreement extend for ten years after termination of our participation in the joint venture. The remainder of the decrease in service, distribution and other revenues includes lower other service revenue, partially offset by higher revenues related to securities lending activities. Asset management fees increased $34 million, primarily from the management of institutional customer assets as a result of net asset flows. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $328 million, from $1.991 billion in 2006 to $2.319 billion in 2007. Asset management fees increased $107 million, primarily from the management of institutional and retail customer assets as a result of increased asset values due to market appreciation and net asset flows. Service, distribution and other revenues increased $183 million primarily due to increased revenues in certain real estate funds, which is fully offset by higher expenses related to minority interest in these funds. Revenues from incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues increased $38 million reflecting greater transaction fees primarily from real estate investment management activities and increased revenues from the segments proprietary investing business, partially offset by a decline in performance based incentive fees. The decrease in performance based incentive fees resulted from a higher level of gains in 2006 on sale of real estate related investments we manage. Certain of our incentive fees are subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $164 million, from $1.618 billion in 2007 to $1.454 billion in 2008, driven by lower expenses related to the decline in service fee revenue, incentive based fees, and revenues associated with certain real estate and fixed income funds, as discussed above. These items are partially offset by higher compensation costs primarily reflecting increased headcount. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $177 million, from $1.441 billion in 2006 to $1.618 billion in 2007. The increase is primarily driven by higher expenses associated with certain real estate funds, as discussed above. 108 U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 2,754 $ 2,602 $ 2,217 Benefits and expenses 2,308 1,980 1,672 Adjusted operating income 446 622 545 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (619 ) (74 ) (63 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change $ (173 ) $ 548 $ 482 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $176 million, from $622 million in 2007 to $446 million in 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2008 includes a $79 million benefit from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other costs due to an increased estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, based on an annual review, primarily reflecting improved future mortality expectations based on improvements in recent mortality experience on our in force business, compared to a similar benefit for $78 million from the annual review in 2007. Results for 2008 also include a $53 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for 2007 include a similar benefit amounting to $57 million. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiation periodically which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements has been renegotiated and the profit opportunities will be significantly reduced in 2010 and beyond. Absent the effect of these items, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $173 million from the prior year. On this basis, the decrease in adjusted operating income is primarily due to a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, primarily reflecting the impact of unfavorable equity markets on both separate account fund performance, including the impact of a corresponding change to the future rate of return assumptions, and variable product policy persistency. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in asset based fees due to lower separate account asset balances reflecting the impact of the unfavorable equity markets, as well as losses on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders. These decreases were partially offset by higher product margins from growth in term and universal life insurance in force and improved mortality experience, net of reinsurance, compared to the prior year. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable contracts, lapses may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this lag being borne by the Company. Consequently, due to the continued unfavorable equity markets in the fourth quarter of 2008, the variable policy lapses are expected to continue to negatively impact results of the first quarter of 2009. The net increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves includes the impact of actual market performance on both actual profits and estimated future gross profits, used as the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs. We continue to derive our future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. However, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the projected future rate of return calculated using the reversion to the 109 mean approach was greater than 10.9%, our current maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. As a result, we utilized the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean, and further decreasing our estimate of total gross profits. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $77 million, from $545 million in 2006 to $622 million in 2007. Adjusted operating income for 2007 includes a $78 million benefit from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other costs due to an increased estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, based on an annual review, primarily reflecting improved future mortality expectations based on improvements in recent mortality experience on our in force business, compared to a $46 million benefit from the annual review in 2006. Results for 2007 also include a $57 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute while 2006 included a $25 million benefit for this item. Absent the effect of these items, adjusted operating income for 2007 increased $13 million from the prior year, reflecting higher fees resulting primarily from higher asset balances as a result of market value changes and higher margins from growth in term and universal life insurance in force. Mortality experience, net of reinsurance, was slightly more favorable compared to 2006. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $152 million, from $2.602 billion in 2007 to $2.754 billion in 2008. Premiums increased $80 million, primarily due to increased premiums on term life insurance reflecting continued growth of our in force block of term insurance. Net investment income increased $93 million, reflecting higher asset balances primarily from the financing of regulatory requirements associated with statutory reserves for certain term and universal life insurance policies and growth in universal life account balances due to increased policyholder deposits. Policy charges and fee income increased $26 million, including a decrease of $36 million due to the effects of updates in both periods of our assumptions related to the amortization of unearned revenue reserves based on the annual reviews, as discussed above. Absent the impact of these annual reviews, policy charges and fee income increased $62 million primarily reflecting the increase in amortization of unearned revenue reserves, discussed above, partially offset by losses on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders. These items were partially offset by lower asset based fees due to lower separate account asset balances reflecting the unfavorable impact of equity market performance. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $385 million, from $2.217 billion in 2006 to $2.602 billion in 2007. Policy charges and fee income increased $120 million, including $102 million due to the effects of updates in both periods of our assumptions related to the amortization of unearned revenue reserves based on the annual reviews discussed above. Absent this item, policy charges and fee income increased $18 million reflecting growth in our universal life insurance in force. Asset management fees and other income increased $53 million, including a $32 million increase in compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, as discussed above, as well as higher asset based fees due to higher asset balances reflecting market value changes. Premiums increased $104 million, primarily due to increased premiums on term life insurance reflecting continued growth of our in force block of term insurance. Net investment income increased $108 million, reflecting higher asset balances primarily from the financing of statutory capital activity for certain term and universal life insurance policies and higher yields in 2007. Benefits and Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $328 million, from $1.980 billion in 2007 to $2.308 billion in 2008. Absent the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both 2008 and 2007, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $365 million, from $2.103 billion in 2007 to $2.468 billion in 2008. On this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $225 million, primarily reflecting the impact of unfavorable equity markets on both separate account fund performance, including the impact of a corresponding change to the future rate of return assumptions discussed above, and variable product policy persistency. Also on this basis, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, increased $88 million, reflecting higher policyholder reserves from growth in our in force block of term insurance and an increase in interest credited to 110 policyholders account balances due to growth in universal life account balances from increased policyholder deposits. Interest expense increased $49 million, primarily reflecting interest on increased borrowings related to the financing of regulatory requirements associated with statutory reserves for certain term and universal life insurance policies. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $308 million, from $1.672 billion in 2006 to $1.980 billion in 2007. Absent the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both 2007 and 2006 discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $238 million, from $1.865 billion in 2006 to $2.103 billion in 2007. On this basis, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, increased $137 million, reflecting higher claims payments and increases in reserves on term life insurance associated with growth in our in force block of term insurance compared to 2006. Also on this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $8 million, reflecting less favorable separate account fund performance partially offset by more favorable policy persistency compared to 2006. Interest expense increased $83 million, primarily reflecting interest on borrowings related to the financing of statutory capital activity for certain term and universal life insurance policies. Sales Results The following table sets forth individual life insurance annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year excess premiums and deposits. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Annualized New Business Premiums(1): Excluding corporate owned life insurance: Variable life $ 39 $ 54 $ 53 Universal life 83 87 81 Term life 209 212 147 Total excluding corporate owned life insurance 331 353 281 Corporate owned life insurance 1 Total $ 331 $ 353 $ 282 Annualized new business premiums by distribution channel, excluding corporate owned life insurance(1): Prudential Agents $ 109 $ 126 $ 125 Third party 222 227 156 Total $ 331 $ 353 $ 281 (1) The Individual Life Sales measure has been modified to reflect annualized new business premiums, which represent annualized scheduled premiums plus 10% of excess (unscheduled) and single premiums from new sales. This new measure provides a more meaningful presentation of sales results and trends than the former measure, which included 100% of excess (unscheduled) or single premiums. Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the current presentation. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, decreased $22 million, from $353 million in 2007 to $331 million in 2008, primarily due to lower sales of variable life products by Prudential Agents. Sales of universal life and term life products also decreased from the prior year. Sales by Prudential Agents were $17 million lower than the prior year primarily due to lower sales of variable life and term life products, reflecting a product shift towards annuity sales. The number of Prudential Agents decreased from 2,425 at December 31, 2007 to 2,360 at December 31, 2008. Sales from the third party distribution channel were $5 million lower than the prior year due to lower sales of variable and universal life products. 111 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, excluding corporate owned life insurance, measured as described above, increased $72 million, from $281 million in 2006 to $353 million in 2007, primarily due to increased sales of term life products from the third party distribution channel. Sales of universal life and variable life products also increased from the prior year. Sales by the third party distribution channel were $71 million higher than the prior year primarily due to higher sales of term life products and to a lesser degree increases in variable life and universal life products. Sales by Prudential Agents were slightly higher than the prior year, as increased sales of term life and universal life products were partially offset by lower sales of variable life products. The number of Prudential Agents decreased from 2,562 at December 31, 2006 to 2,425 at December 31, 2007. Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the individual life insurance business policy surrender experience for variable and universal life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under U.S. GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Generally, our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 ($ in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 802 $ 752 $ 744 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders accountbalances, and separate account balances 3.8 % 3.3 % 3.5 % 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $50 million, from $752 million in 2007 to $802 million in 2008, reflecting a greater volume of surrenders of variable life insurance in 2008 compared to the prior year, due primarily to market conditions and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or make the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances increased from 3.3% in 2007 to 3.8% in 2008. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $8 million, from $744 million in 2006 to $752 million in 2007, reflecting a greater volume of surrenders of variable life insurance in 2007 compared to the prior year. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances decreased slightly in 2007 from 3.5% in 2006 to 3.3% in 2007. 112 Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 4,960 $ 4,799 $ 4,555 Benefits and expenses 4,620 4,513 4,326 Adjusted operating income 340 286 229 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (201 ) (37 ) (16 ) Related charges(2) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 138 $ 247 $ 211 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on interest credited to policyholders account balances. Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $54 million, from $286 million in 2007 to $340 million in 2008, primarily reflecting more favorable claims experience in our group life business, as well as growth in our group disability business. Also included in results for 2008 is a $20 million benefit from a premium adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2008 for updated data on a large group life insurance case. Partially offsetting these items was less favorable investment results during 2008. Both periods reflect the benefit from refinements in group disability reserves as a result of annual reviews. These annual reviews benefited both periods by $13 million and were primarily associated with our long term disability products. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $57 million, from $229 million in 2006 to $286 million in 2007, primarily reflecting more favorable claims experience in our group life business and, to a lesser extent, growth in our group disability business. The increase in adjusted operating income was partially offset by higher operating expenses in 2007 and a lower benefit in 2007 compared with 2006 from refinements in reserves as a result of annual reviews. The increase in operating expenses is due to growth in the disability business and increased compensation and benefit costs in 2007, and was partially offset by higher costs incurred in 2006 related to legal and regulatory matters. The annual reviews discussed above benefited 2007 $13 million, primarily associated with our long term disability products, while benefiting 2006 $19 million, primarily associated with our long term care products. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $161 million, from $4.799 billion in 2007 to $4.960 billion in 2008. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased by $54 million, from $3.178 billion in 2007 to $3.232 billion in 2008, primarily reflecting higher premiums from non experience rated group life business due to the premium adjustment for updated data on a large case as discussed above and growth in business in force, as new sales exceeded the level of lapses in 2008. Lapse activity remained relatively constant as group life persistency was 94% in 2007 and 93% in 2008. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long term care products, increased by $128 million from $867 million in the 2007 to $995 million in 2008. This increase reflects growth in business in force resulting from new sales, which included the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2008, exceeding the level of lapses, which increased as persistency deteriorated from 88% in 2007 to 86% in 2008. The group life and group disability persistency are reflective of 113 continuing competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in net investment income of $24 million, from $671 million in 2007 to $647 million in 2008, as the benefit from growth in invested assets was more than offset by lower investment yields, principally due to lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $244 million, from $4.555 billion in 2006 to $4.799 billion in 2007. Group life premiums increased by $37 million, from $2.795 billion in 2006 to $2.832 billion in 2007, primarily reflecting increased premiums on experience rated group life business resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts as discussed below. Group life persistency remained strong, but deteriorated slightly from 95% in 2006 to 94% in 2007. Group disability premiums, which include long term care products, increased by $86 million from $761 million in 2006 to $847 million in 2007, primarily reflecting growth in business in force resulting from new sales and persistency which remained strong, but deteriorated from 90% in 2006 to 88% in 2007. The declines in group life and group disability persistency are reflective of highly competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. Policy charges and fee income also increased by $59 million, primarily reflecting growth of business in force. In addition, net investment income increased $50 million primarily reflecting a larger base of invested assets due to business growth. Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Benefits ratio(1): Group life 88.6 % 90.4 % 91.8 % Group disability 87.2 86.6 85.5 Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life 8.6 9.3 9.6 Group disability 19.8 21.0 21.5 (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $107 million, from $4.513 billion in 2007 to $4.620 billion in 2008, primarily due to a $110 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, primarily reflecting growth of business in force in our group disability business, partially offset by more favorable claims experience in our group life businesses. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses primarily related to business growth. The group life benefits ratio improved 1.8 percentage points from 2007 to 2008, due to more favorable mortality experience combined with the benefit from a premium adjustment for updated data on a large case. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 0.6 percentage points from 2007 to 2008, due to slightly less favorable claims experience. The group life administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2007 to 2008, as gross premiums increased at a rate that outpaced the increase in operating expenses. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2007 to 2008, reflecting growth in the business from new sales, as discussed above, that outpaced the related increase in operating expenses. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $187 million, from $4.326 billion in 2006 to $4.513 billion in 2007. The increase was driven by an increase of $126 million in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, reflecting growth of business in force in our group disability business, the lower benefit in 2007 of the group disability reserve refinements discussed above, and greater benefits on experience rated group life business which, as discussed above, resulted in increased premiums. In 114 addition, interest credited to policyholder account balances increased $36 million primarily due to an increase in policyholder account balances as a result of growth in the business. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses reflecting growth in the disability business and increased compensation and benefit costs, partially offset by lower costs related to legal and regulatory matters. The group life benefits ratio improved 1.4 percentage points from 2006 to 2007, reflecting more favorable mortality experience in our group life business. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 1.1 percentage points from 2006 to 2007. Excluding the effect of the reserve refinements discussed above, the group disability benefits ratio was relatively unchanged. Both the group life and group disability administrative operating expense ratios improved slightly from 2006 to 2007, reflecting lower costs related to legal and regulatory matters. Excluding these costs, the administrative operating expense ratios for both group life and group disability were relatively flat. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums(1): Group life $ 288 $ 197 $ 366 Group disability(2) 204 155 138 Total $ 492 $ 352 $ 504 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts, and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. (2) Includes long term care products. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $140 million, from $352 million in 2007 to $492 million in 2008. Group life sales increased $91 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to both new and existing customers and higher premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2008. Group disability sales increased $49 million due to increased sales of large case disability products to new customers, higher disability premiums associated with assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, and higher sales of long term care products in 2008. Our sales are reflective of the continuing competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums decreased $152 million from $504 million in 2006 to $352 million in 2007. This decrease is primarily due to lower large case sales in the group life business during 2007, reflective of highly competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. Partially offsetting this decrease were higher large case and middle market sales in the group disability business during 2007. 115 International Insurance and Investments Division Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings As a U.S. based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., we seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. The operations of our International Insurance and International Investments segments are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect their U.S. dollar results from period to period even if results on a local currency basis are relatively constant. As discussed further below, we enter into forward currency derivative contracts, as well as dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as part of our strategy to effectively fix the currency exchange rates for a portion of our prospective non U.S. dollar denominated earnings streams, thereby reducing volatility from unfavorable and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. Forward currency hedging program The financial results of our International Insurance segment and International Investments segment, excluding the global commodities group, for all periods presented reflect the impact of an intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which the segments non U.S. dollar denominated earnings in all countries are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a currency income hedging program designed to mitigate the risk that unfavorable exchange rate changes will reduce the segments U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, Corporate and Other operations executes forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non U.S. dollar denominated earnings are expected to be generated. This program is primarily associated with the International Insurance segments businesses in Japan, Korea and Taiwan and the International Investments segments businesses in Korea and Europe. The intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations increased (decreased) revenues and adjusted operating income of each segment as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Impact on revenues and adjusted operating income: International Insurance $ 6 $ 88 $ 50 International Investments (2 ) (14 ) (7 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division $ 4 $ 74 $ 43 Results of Corporate and Other operations include any differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segments and the gains or losses recorded from the forward currency contracts that settled during the period. The consolidated net impact of this program recorded within the Corporate and Other operations were gains of $18 million, gains of $4 million and a loss of $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The notional amount of these forward currency contracts was $2.8 billion as of both December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, of which $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, related to our Japanese insurance operations. Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments In addition, our Japanese insurance operations also hold dual currency investments in the form of fixed maturities and loans. The principal of these dual currency investments are yen denominated while the related interest income is U.S. dollar denominated. These investments are the economic equivalent of exchanging what would otherwise be fixed streams of yen denominated interest income for fixed streams of U.S. dollar interest income. Our Japanese insurance operations also hold investments in yen denominated investments that have been 116 coupled with cross currency coupon swap agreements, creating synthetic dual currency investments. The yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate is effectively fixed, as we are obligated in future periods to exchange fixed amounts of Japanese yen interest payments generated by the yen denominated investments for U.S. dollars at the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rates specified by the cross currency coupon swap agreements. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the notional amount of these investments was &yen;500 billion, or $4.4 billion, and &yen;538 billion, or $4.8 billion, respectively, based upon the foreign currency exchange rates applicable at the time these investments were acquired. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the weighted average yield generated by these investments was 2.5%, 2.3% and 2.7%, respectively. Presented below is the fair value of these instruments as reflected on our balance sheet for the periods presented. December 31,2008 December 31,2007 (in millions) Cross currency coupon swap agreements $ 12 $ 40 Foreign exchange component of interest on dual currency investments (82 ) (11 ) Total $ (70 ) $ 29 The table below presents as of December 31, 2008, the yen denominated earnings subject to our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments and the related weighted average exchange rates resulting from these investments. Year (1)Interest componentof dual currencyinvestments Cross currencycoupon swap elementof synthetic dualcurrency investments Yen denominatedearnings subject tothese investments Weighted averageexchange rate perU.S. Dollar (in billions) (Yen per $) 2009 &yen; 3.8 &yen; 5.9 &yen; 9.7 89.5 2010 3.6 5.0 8.6 88.2 2011 3.4 3.9 7.3 85.3 2012 2034 36.4 56.4 92.8 79.5 Total &yen; 47.2 &yen; 71.2 &yen; 118.4 81.2 (1) Yen amounts are imputed from the contractual U.S. dollar denominated interest cash flows. The table above does not reflect the forward currency income hedging program discussed above. In establishing the level of yen denominated earnings that will be hedged through the forward currency income hedging program we take into account the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as well as the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by U.S. dollar denominated products and investments, which are discussed in greater detail below. Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on equity Hedges of U.S. GAAP equity and available economic capital We also seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent equity in foreign subsidiaries through various hedging strategies. We are in the process of developing an economic capital framework, which includes available economic capital, as discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Economic Capital, and as we further develop this framework, or as other events occur, we may alter this strategy. Available economic capital represents the excess of the fair value of assets over the fair value of liabilities for the current in force block of business. In our Japanese insurance operations we currently seek to hedge a portion of estimated available economic capital and other measures of value, including the amount attributable to the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations, which totaled $4.5 billion as of December 31, 2008 excluding Accumulated other comprehensive income components of Stockholders Equity and certain other adjustments. We hedge the estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations through a variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar 117 denominated investments financed with yen denominated liabilities and equity, yen denominated debt and U.S. dollar denominated debt that has been swapped to yen. In certain of our other foreign insurance operations, the U.S. GAAP equity exposure is mitigated by entering into forward currency contracts that generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and by holding U.S. dollar denominated investments. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of the instruments serving as hedges of our estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations amounted to $7.8 billion, an increase of $2.2 billion from December 31, 2007. The instruments were principally comprised of available for sale U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $5.2 billion and held to maturity U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $1.0 billion, as well as $1.5 billion of net yen denominated debt and U.S. dollar denominated debt that has been swapped to yen. The effects of the U.S. dollar denominated debt that has been swapped to yen are reported in Corporate & Other operations. These amounts do not reflect the forward currency income hedging program or dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed above. The available for sale investments under U.S. GAAP are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with unrealized changes in fair value (except as described below for impairments), including those from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, recorded as unrealized gains or losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income within Stockholders Equity. Changes in the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations due to foreign currency exchange rate movements are also recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income as a Currency translation adjustment. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations is partially offset by foreign currency exchange related changes in designated Yen denominated debt and other hedging instruments within the Currency translation adjustment account. To a larger degree the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations is offset by the related changes in fair value due to foreign currency exchange rate movements of the portion of the available for sale investments that supports our Japanese insurance operations U.S. GAAP equity, hence creating a natural equity hedge. For U.S. dollar denominated investments that support the portion of estimated available economic capital above our U.S. GAAP equity there is no offsetting impact to equity. The investments designated as held to maturity under U.S. GAAP are recorded at amortized cost on the balance sheet, but are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements with the related change in value recorded within Asset management fees and other income. The remeasurement related to the change in value for foreign currency exchange rate movements for these investments is excluded from adjusted operating income, as part of our application of the hedge of available economic capital. The U.S. dollar denominated investments that hedge a portion of our estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations pay a coupon, which is reflected within Net investment income, and, therefore, included in adjusted operating income, which is approximately 200 to 300 basis points greater than what a similar yen based investment would pay. The incremental impact of this higher yield will vary over time, and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investment, as well as interest rate environments in the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investment. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Investment Results for a discussion of the investment yields generated by our Japanese insurance operations. Because these U.S. dollar denominated investments are recorded on the books of yen based entities, foreign currency exchange movements will impact their value. To the extent the value of the yen strengthens as compared to the U.S. dollar, the value of these U.S. dollar denominated investments will decrease as a result of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Upon the ultimate sale or maturity of the U.S. dollar denominated investments, any realized change in value related to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates will be included in Realized gains (losses), net within the income statement and, excluded from adjusted operating income. Similarly, any impairment recognized on these investments, including those for an other than temporary decline in value that may include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, will be included in Realized gains (losses), net within the income statement, and, as such, excluded from adjusted operating income. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of our policies regarding impairments. 118 During the first quarter of 2008, we began incorporating the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the remaining U.S. dollar denominated net asset position of our Japanese insurance operations, which primarily relates to accrued investment income, as part of our overall application of the hedge of available economic capital. These U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, as they are non yen denominated items on the books of yen based entities, and the related change in value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. As these U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are included in the determination of the Japanese insurance operations level of available economic capital, we exclude all remeasurement related to these items from adjusted operating income. In addition, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our international insurance operations also had $6.2 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, of foreign currency exposure from U.S. dollar liabilities for U.S. dollar denominated products issued by these operations. A portion of these liabilities are coinsured to our U.S. domiciled insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar denominated assets. For the U.S. dollar liabilities retained in Japan, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments, including a significant portion that are designated as available for sale, and other related U.S. dollar denominated net assets, primarily accrued investment income, to support these products. The change in value due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, or remeasurement, of the related U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities associated with these products is excluded from adjusted operating income. International Insurance The results of our International Insurance operations are translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Insurance segment, where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations were derived by translating foreign currencies to U.S. dollars at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, including, for constant dollar information discussed below, Japanese yen at a rate of 106 yen per U.S. dollar; Korean won at a rate of 950 won per U.S. dollar. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in U.S. dollars is reported based on the amounts as transacted in U.S. dollars. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the Sales Results section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates. 119 Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating Results: Revenues: Life Planner operations $ 6,022 $ 5,414 $ 4,884 Gibraltar Life 3,163 2,844 2,851 9,185 8,258 7,735 Benefits and expenses: Life Planner operations 4,897 4,394 3,946 Gibraltar Life 2,541 2,266 2,361 7,438 6,660 6,307 Adjusted operating income: Life Planner operations 1,125 1,020 938 Gibraltar Life 622 578 490 1,747 1,598 1,428 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 149 366 190 Related charges(1)(2) 27 (61 ) (11 ) Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) (370 ) (99 ) 28 Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) 370 99 (28 ) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures(5) (3 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 1,920 $ 1,903 $ 1,607 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of unearned revenue reserves. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges that represent the element of Dividends to policyholders that is based on a portion of certain realized investment gains required to be paid to policyholders and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $105 million, from $1.020 billion in 2007 to $1.125 billion in 2008, including a $2 million unfavorable impact of currency fluctuations, primarily reflecting the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations. In addition, adjusted operating income in 2008 benefited from improved investment income margins, which reflect the benefits of various investment portfolio strategies, including duration lengthening and increased exposure to corporate securities. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income increased $44 million, from $578 million in 2007 to $622 million in 2008, including a $14 million unfavorable impact of currency fluctuations. Results for 2007 benefited $15 million from investment income associated with a single investment joint venture, reflecting the sale of real 120 estate within the venture. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and the foregoing investment income benefit to the prior year period, adjusted operating income for Gibraltar Life increased $73 million, reflecting improved investment income margins which reflect the benefits of various investment portfolio strategies, as discussed in more detail below, and the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product. In addition, results for 2008 benefited from more favorable mortality experience than that of the prior year. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $82 million, from $938 million in 2006 to $1.020 billion in 2007, including a $36 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income of our Life Planner operations increased $46 million, primarily as a result of the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income increased $88 million, from $490 million in 2006 to $578 million in 2007, including a $4 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income for Gibraltar Life increased $84 million primarily reflecting improved investment income margins. The improvement in investment income margins reflects the benefit of various investment portfolio strategies, including duration lengthening in our Japanese yen investments, increased credit exposure and increased utilization of U.S. dollar based investments. In addition, the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product contributed to the improvement in investment income margins. Investment income margins also benefited $15 million in 2007 from investment income associated with a single investment joint venture, reflecting the sale of real estate within the venture. Partially offsetting these benefits to investment income margins was the benefit in 2006 of $6 million from an investment joint venture transaction. The increase in adjusted operating income also reflects a $17 million charge recognized in 2006 for refinements in policy liabilities. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $927 million, from $8.258 billion in 2007 to $9.185 billion in 2008, including a net favorable impact of $367 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $560 million, from $8.645 billion in 2007 to $9.205 billion in 2008. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $608 million, from $5.414 billion in 2007 to $6.022 billion in 2008, including a net favorable impact of currency fluctuations of $108 million. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $500 million from 2007 to 2008, primarily due to an increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $314 million, from $4.719 billion in 2007 to $5.033 billion in 2008. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $263 million, from $3.241 billion in 2007 to $3.504 billion in 2008. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Korean operation increased $28 million, from $1.153 billion in 2007 to $1.181 billion in 2008. The increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income in both operations was primarily the result of growth in business in force from new sales and strong persistency. Net investment income also increased $151 million, from $823 million in 2007 to $974 million in 2008, due to higher portfolio yields from various investment portfolio strategies, including duration lengthening and increased exposure to corporate securities, and asset growth. Due to the long term nature of many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to add duration exposure to our Japanese investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer term securities or, due to the difficulty in finding appropriate securities with the same long duration, by entering into long duration floating to fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long dated product liabilities, and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. Based on an evaluation of recent market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, we have terminated or offset many of these interest rate swaps in consideration of, among other things, the interest rate environment. These actions will result in lower portfolio yields in our Japanese Life Planner operations in 2009. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and we expect to resume implementing strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions changes. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields upon the resumption of these strategies will depend on the then current interest rate environment. 121 Revenues from Gibraltar Life increased $319 million, from $2.844 billion in 2007 to $3.163 billion in 2008, including a favorable impact from currency fluctuations of $259 million. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $60 million, from $3.085 billion in 2007 to $3.145 billion in 2008. This increase reflects a $92 million increase in net investment income, from $892 million in 2007 to $984 million in 2008, driven by the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated annuity product, as well as higher portfolio yields from various investment portfolio strategies including increased exposure to corporate securities, increased utilization of U.S. dollar denominated investments and duration lengthening. Premiums decreased $33 million from $2.135 billion in 2007 to $2.102 billion in 2008, driven primarily by a decrease in single pay premiums and lower renewal premiums reflecting the attrition of existing business. Our renewal premiums have declined as the market has continued to transition from traditional products, on which we record premiums, to newer products such as those with a retirement and savings objective, for which customer funds received are recorded as deposits. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $523 million, from $7.735 billion in 2006 to $8.258 billion in 2007, including a net favorable impact of $36 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $487 million, from $8.158 billion in 2006 to $8.645 billion in 2007. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $530 million, from $4.884 billion in 2006 to $5.414 billion in 2007, including a net favorable impact of currency fluctuations of $57 million. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $473 million from 2006 to 2007, primarily reflecting increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $356 million, from $4.363 billion in 2006 to $4.719 billion in 2007. Premiums and policy charges and fee income increased $244 million, from $2.997 billion in 2006 to $3.241 billion in 2007, in our Japanese Life Planner operation and increased $81 million, from $1.072 billion in 2006 to $1.153 billion in 2007, in our Korean operation. The increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income in both operations was primarily the result of new sales and strong persistency. Net investment income also increased $127 million, from $696 million in 2006 to $823 million in 2007, due to asset growth and higher investment yields reflecting duration lengthening of our Japanese yen investment portfolio and increased utilization of U.S. dollar based investments. Revenues from Gibraltar Life declined $7 million, from $2.851 billion in 2006 to $2.844 billion in 2007, including an unfavorable impact from currency fluctuations of $21 million. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $14 million, from $3.071 billion in 2006 to $3.085 billion in 2007. Premiums decreased $89 million, from $2.224 billion in 2006 to $2.135 billion in 2007, as premiums in 2006 benefited $92 million from additional face amounts of insurance issued pursuant to a special dividend arrangement established as part of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization for which 2007 includes no such benefit. Substantially all of these premiums recognized pursuant to the special dividend arrangement were offset by a corresponding charge to increase reserves for the affected policies. Also reflected in premiums are higher sales of single premium contracts and an increase in first year premium, mostly offset by a decrease in renewal premiums reflecting the expected attrition of older business. Our premiums have declined as the market has continued to transition from traditional products, on which we record premiums, to products with a retirement and savings objective, for which customer funds received are recorded as deposits. More than offsetting the decrease in premium was a $104 million increase in net investment income, from $788 million in 2006 to $892 million in 2007, due to improved investment income margins, as discussed above. Benefits and Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $778 million, from $6.660 billion in 2007 to $7.438 billion in 2008, including a net unfavorable impact of $383 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $395 million, from $7.076 billion in 2007 to $7.471 billion in 2008. Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $503 million, from $4.394 billion in 2007 to $4.897 billion in 2008, including a net unfavorable impact of $110 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $393 million, from $4.558 billion in 2007 to $4.951 billion in 2008. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operations increased $270 million, 122 from $3.001 billion in 2007 to $3.271 billion in 2008. Benefits and expenses from our Korean operation increased $68 million, from $1.101 billion in 2007 to $1.169 billion in 2008. The increase in benefits and expenses in both operations reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $275 million, from $2.266 billion in 2007 to $2.541 billion in 2008, including a $273 million unfavorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $2 million, from $2.518 billion in 2007 to $2.520 billion in 2008. This increase reflects higher interest credited to policyholders account balances and higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs both related to the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated annuity product. Mostly offsetting these items is a decrease in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by more favorable mortality experience, as well as the attrition of existing business as discussed above. We have recently undertaken an initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. We currently estimate that we will incur $60 million of non capitalizable costs related to this initiative in 2009, with the vast majority of these expenditures to be recognized in our Gibraltar Life operations. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $353 million, from $6.307 billion in 2006 to $6.660 billion in 2007, including a net favorable impact of $4 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $357 million, from $6.719 billion in 2006 to $7.076 billion in 2007. Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $448 million, from $3.946 billion in 2006 to $4.394 billion in 2007, including a net unfavorable impact of $21 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $427 million, from $4.131 billion in 2006 to $4.558 billion in 2007. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $259 million, from $2.742 billion in 2006 to $3.001 billion in 2007, while benefits and expenses from our Korean operation increased $126 million, from $975 million in 2006 to $1.101 billion in 2007. The increase in benefits and expenses in both operations reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by new sales and strong persistency. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses are higher general and administrative expenses primarily as a result of business growth. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses declined $95 million, from $2.361 billion in 2006 to $2.266 billion in 2007, including a $25 million favorable impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses declined $70 million, from $2.588 billion in 2006 to $2.518 billion in 2007. This decline is primarily due to the effects of the special dividend arrangement discussed above and the $17 million charge recognized in 2006 for refinements in policy liabilities. Partially offsetting the decline in benefits and expenses was higher interest credited to policyholders account balances resulting from growth in our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product. 123 Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze revenues, as well as annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. Annualized new business premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis are as follows for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums: On an actual exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 775 $ 788 $ 767 Gibraltar Life(1) 454 342 357 Total $ 1,229 $ 1,130 $ 1,124 On a constant exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 782 $ 820 $ 806 Gibraltar Life(1) 454 365 377 Total $ 1,236 $ 1,185 $ 1,183 (1) The methodology for determining Gibraltar Lifes annualized new business premium on an actual and constant exchange rate basis has been revised to more clearly report the trend of U.S. dollar product sales. Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current presentation. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $51 million, from $1.185 billion in 2007 to $1.236 billion in 2008. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations decreased $38 million. Sales through the first nine months of 2008 were relatively flat, with growth in Japan offset by a decline in Korea reflecting the continued competitive market environment. However, due to the economic environment and concerns over U.S. financial institutions, sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined 13% from the prior year quarter, with declines in both Japan and Korea. The number of Life Planners increased 199, or 3%, from 6,166 as of December 31, 2007 to 6,365 as of December 31, 2008, driven by increases of 90 in Taiwan, 67 in Korea, and 29 in Argentina. During 2008, 70 Life Planners in Japan were transferred to Gibraltar primarily to support our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Life Planners in Japan would have increased 2%, from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, which reflects lower recruiting in Japan in the later part of 2008 due to a more selective screening process meant to further improve Life Planner retention and quality, as well as recruiting challenges posed by the current economic environment. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $89 million, primarily reflecting strong sales of a new U.S. dollar denominated retirement income product launched in the first quarter of 2008, as well as higher sales of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product and a new single premium yen denominated endowment product. The number of Life Advisors increased by 66, from 6,264 as of December 31, 2007 to 6,330 as of December 31, 2008, as we continue to focus on hiring practices to enhance retention and productivity. The Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors, as they sell only through the bank channel. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $2 million, from $1.183 billion in 2006 to $1.185 billion in 2007. On this same basis, annualized new business premiums from our Japanese Life Planner operations increased $10 million reflecting increased sales of retirement income and U.S. dollar denominated whole life products, partially offset by lower sales of increasing 124 term life products to corporations as a result of pending tax law changes. Sales in all other countries, also on a constant exchange rate basis, increased $4 million as decreased sales in Korea mostly offset increased sales in Taiwan and the rest of our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Planners increased 338, or 6%, from 5,828 as of December 31, 2006 to 6,166 as of December 31, 2007. This increase was driven by increases of 112, 66 and 90 in our Life Planner operations in Japan, Korea and Taiwan, respectively. In addition, during 2007, 82 Life Planners in Japan were transferred to Gibraltar primarily to support our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation decreased $12 million from 2006 to 2007, primarily due to lower sales of our U.S. dollar denominated single premium fixed annuity, particularly in our bank distribution channel, which was partially offset by higher sales of our U.S. dollar whole life product and other traditional insurance products. The number of Life Advisors increased 320, or 5%, from 5,944 as of December 31, 2006 to 6,264 as of December 31, 2007. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. Japanese authorities regulate interest rates guaranteed in our Japanese insurance contracts. The regulated guaranteed interest rates do not necessarily match the actual returns on the underlying investments. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. With regulatory approval, guaranteed rates may be changed on new business. While these actions enhance our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products sold in Japan, other than those sold by Gibraltar Life, are margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality and morbidity tables. Our mortality and morbidity experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. International Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 285 $ 769 $ 590 Expenses 630 510 447 Adjusted operating income (345 ) 259 143 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 2 1 61 Related charges(2) (3 ) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures(3) 290 (30 ) (28 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (53 ) $ 227 $ 176 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on minority interest. (3) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 125 In 2004, we acquired an 80 percent interest in Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd., a Korean asset management firm, from an agency of the Korean government. We subsequently renamed the company Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd, or PISC. On January 25, 2008, we acquired the remaining 20 percent for $90 million and PISC is now a wholly owned operation. On July 12, 2007, we sold our 50 percent interest in our operating joint ventures Oppenheim Pramerica Fonds Trust GmbH and Oppenheim Pramerica Asset Management S.a.r.l., which we accounted for under the equity method, to our partner Oppenheim S.C.A. for $121 million. These businesses establish, package and distribute mutual fund products to German and other European retail investors. We recorded a pre tax gain on the sale of $37 million, which is reflected in the adjusted operating income of our International Investments segment in 2007. In addition to the gain on sale, these businesses contributed $3 million and $4 million of adjusted operating income to the results of the International Investments segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. On January 18, 2008, we made an additional investment of $154 million in our UBI Pramerica operating joint venture in Italy, which we account for under the equity method. This additional investment was necessary to maintain our ownership interest at 35 percent and was a result of the merger of our joint venture partner with another Italian bank, and their subsequent consolidation of their asset management companies into the UBI Pramerica joint venture. On July 1, 2008, we acquired a 40 percent interest in GAP Asset Management of Brazil, which we account for under the equity method as an operating joint venture. GAP Asset Management of Brazil had $2.9 billion in assets under management as of June 30, 2008 and $0.9 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2008, reflecting a decline in assets under management attributable to client outflows and foreign exchange movements. Adjusted Operating Income 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $604 million, from income of $259 million in 2007 to a loss of $345 million in 2008, primarily reflecting impairment charges of $439 million related to operating joint ventures and goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment of $316 million to the carrying value of certain operating joint ventures associated with the segments asset management businesses. These operating joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and the impairments related to our joint ventures in Italy, Brazil and Mexico. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $123 million associated with the segments asset management businesses. Both the goodwill and joint venture impairments reflect the significant deterioration in financial market conditions that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008, which resulted in a decline in our anticipated future asset management and transaction based fees, and hence a decrease in the expected future earnings of the segments asset management businesses. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining carrying value of our operating joint ventures and goodwill was $304 million and $0 million, respectively, related to the segments asset management businesses. There are no operating joint ventures or goodwill associated with the segments global commodities group. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income is the benefit in 2007 of a $37 million gain from the sale of the segments Oppenheim joint ventures and a $17 million gain from recoveries related to a former investment of the segments Korean asset management operation. The decrease also reflects lower results from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation, as well as lower results from the segments global commodities group. The decrease in earnings for the global commodities group is driven by lower gains on securities relating to exchange memberships, which benefited 2007 by $42 million, while benefiting 2008 by $18 million, as well as a $19 million credit loss related to a brokerage client that was recorded in the first quarter of 2008. The adjusted operating income of our Korean asset management operation includes $18 million and $17 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, of fee revenue from the Korean government under an agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of PISC, related to the provision of asset management and brokerage services, which agreement extends until February 27, 2009. 126 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $116 million, from $143 million in 2006 to $259 million in 2007. Adjusted operating income for 2007 includes the $37 million gain from the sale of our Oppenheim joint ventures and a $17 million benefit from recoveries related to a former investment of our Korean asset management operations. In addition, market value changes on securities relating to exchange memberships benefited 2006 by $21 million, while benefiting 2007 by $42 million. Excluding the benefit of the items discussed above, adjusted operating income increased by $41 million reflecting more favorable results from our asset management businesses in Korea and China. The adjusted operating income of our Korean asset management operations also includes $17 million and $21 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, of fee revenue from the Korean government under the agreement discussed above. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $484 million, from $769 million in 2007 to $285 million in 2008, primarily reflecting the $316 million operating joint venture impairments discussed above. This decrease also reflects lower revenues from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation, as well as the benefit to 2007 of the gain from the sale of Oppenheim and the gain from the recovery of a former investment, as discussed above. Partially offsetting this decrease were higher revenues in our global commodities group due to increased sales and trading activity, which more than offset the lower benefit in 2008 from securities relating to exchange memberships. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $179 million, from $590 million in 2006 to $769 million in 2007. This increase reflects the gain from the sale of our Oppenheim joint ventures, gains from market value changes on securities relating to exchange memberships, and the gain associated with the recovery of a former investment, as well as higher revenue from our asset management businesses. Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $120 million, from $510 million in 2007 to $630 million in 2008, primarily reflecting the $123 million goodwill impairment discussed above. This decrease also reflects the $19 million credit loss in our global commodities group and higher expenses corresponding with the higher level of revenues generated by the sales and trading activity of our global commodities group. Partially offsetting these items were lower expenses in the segments asset management businesses corresponding with the lower level of revenues generated by these businesses. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $63 million, from $447 million in 2006 to $510 million in 2007, primarily due to higher expenses corresponding with the higher level of revenues generated by our asset management businesses. 127 Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to our business segments, and real estate and relocation services. Corporate operations consist primarily of: (1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities and deferred compensation; (6) certain retained obligations relating to policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) businesses that we have placed in wind down status but have not divested; and (8) the impact of transactions with other segments. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating Results: Corporate Operations(1): Net investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense $ 279 $ 369 $ 437 Capital debt interest expense (331 ) (229 ) (233 ) Pension income and employee benefits 273 230 266 Other corporate activities (359 ) (463 ) (503 ) Total Corporate Operations (138 ) (93 ) (33 ) Real Estate and Relocation Services (189 ) 28 75 Adjusted operating income (327 ) (65 ) 42 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) (409 ) (126 ) 108 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(1)(3) 2 (2 ) Divested businesses(4) (506 ) 274 151 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures(5) 331 (370 ) (294 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (911 ) $ (285 ) $ 5 (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. (2) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) See Divested Businesses. (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In 2008, the results of our former Financial Advisory segment, primarily reflecting our investment in the Wachovia Securities retail securities brokerage joint venture, are included in Corporate and Other operations as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. Accordingly, these results are excluded from adjusted operating income, with prior period results being adjusted to reflect such reclassification. See Divested Businesses for additional discussion. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $262 million, from a loss of $65 million in 2007 to a loss of $327 million in 2008. The greater loss in 2008 is primarily due to less favorable results in our real estate and relocation services business. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services business decreased $217 million, from income of $28 million in 2007 to a loss of $189 million in 2008. The loss in 2008 includes a goodwill impairment of $117 million recorded during the fourth 128 quarter of 2008. This impairment, which was all of the goodwill associated with this business, is reflective of the further deterioration of the U.S. housing market that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 and our current view of the timing of the future recovery of this market, which resulted in a decrease in the expected future earnings of this business. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. Also contributing to the decline in adjusted operating income are lower royalty fees, increased bad debt reserves and lower relocation revenue from real estate referral fees and homesale transactions due to the less favorable residential real estate market conditions. Certain of our clients utilize a fixed fee home sale program under which we assume the benefits and burdens of ownership with respect to a relocating employees home that is purchased by us, including carrying costs and any loss on sale. As of December 31, 2008, we held in unsold inventory homes with a net value of $103 million under this program. Adjusted operating income from corporate operations decreased $45 million, from a loss of $93 million in 2007 to a loss of $138 million in 2008. Capital debt interest expense increased by $102 million due to increased borrowings, which includes the issuance in June 2008 of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated notes. In addition, corporate operations investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $90 million, primarily reflecting lower earnings from the investment of proceeds from our convertible debt issues, as discussed below, and lower yields on invested assets. Partially offsetting these items was the benefit from other corporate activities of $104 million, reflecting a decline in our deferred compensation liabilities and other compensation related items in 2008 versus the prior year, as well as lower costs associated with philanthropic activities and other retained corporate expenses. This benefit was partially offset by increased costs related to our retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation. Both our deferred compensation liabilities and our retained obligations to certain policyholders are impacted by financial market conditions. The $2 billion November 2005 convertible debt securities, for which investment of proceeds in fixed income securities contributed to results of 2007, were repaid in May 2007. The proceeds from our $2 billion December 2006 convertible debt issuance were used to fund an investment portfolio of fixed income securities until December 2007, which also benefited results of the prior year. These proceeds, as well as the remaining proceeds from our $3 billion December 2007 convertible debt issuance, were invested primarily in short term investments or used to support operating needs in lieu of other short term borrowings. In December 2008, we repurchased substantially all of our $2 billion December 2006 convertible debt issuance. In December 2008, we also repurchased, in individually negotiated transactions, $853 million of our $3 billion December 2007 convertible debt issuance, which notes were offered to us by certain holders. The 2007 notes were repurchased at a discount resulting in a pre tax gain of $41 million, which is included in other corporate activities. Corporate operations pension income and employee benefits increased $43 million, which primarily reflects the impact of census and other demographic assumption updates to our post retirement and post employment benefit plans. Income from our qualified pension plan decreased $76 million, from $366 million in 2007 to $290 million in 2008, reflecting the impact of the transfer in April 2007 of $1 billion in plan assets within the qualified pension plan under Section 420 of the Internal Revenue Code from assets supporting pension benefits to assets supporting retiree medical benefits. However, as a result of the transfer, the decline in income from our qualified pension plan was offset by a corresponding decline in other postretirement benefit expenses. For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2009, we will decrease the discount rate to 6.00% from 6.25% in 2008. The expected return on plan assets will decline from 7.75% in 2008 to 7.50% in 2009 and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%. We determined our expected return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect on a consolidated basis income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted operating income in 2009, but at a level of about $10 million to $20 million higher than that of the year 2008. Other postretirement benefit expenses will increase 129 in a range of $80 million to $90 million. The increase in other postretirement benefit expense is driven primarily by the decline in plan asset values. In 2009, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $107 million, from income of $42 million in 2006 to a loss of $65 million in 2007. Adjusted operating income from corporate operations decreased $60 million, from a loss of $33 million in 2006 to a loss of $93 million in 2007. Corporate operations investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense decreased $68 million, primarily reflecting the impact of deployment of our excess capital in our businesses and for share repurchases, and less favorable income from equity method investments, including tax credit investments, partially offset by investment income, net of related interest expense, from the investment of proceeds from our $2 billion November 2005 convertible debt issuance and our $2 billion December 2006 convertible debt issuance. In May 2007 the company called for redemption the November 2005 convertible debt securities. Corporate operations includes income from our qualified pension plan of $366 million in 2007, an increase of $23 million from $343 million in 2006. The increase reflects changes in the market value of our plan assets. During 2007 we transferred $1 billion of assets within the qualified pension plan under Section 420 of the Internal Revenue Code from assets supporting pension benefits to assets supporting retiree medical benefits. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services business decreased $47 million, from $75 million in 2006 to $28 million in 2007. The decline reflected lower transaction volume associated with less favorable residential real estate market conditions as well as a fixed asset write off in 2007. Results of Operations of Closed Block Business We established the Closed Block Business effective as of the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See Overview Closed Block Business for additional details. At the end of each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. Although Closed Block experience for dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. As of December 31, 2008, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $433 million. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. However, due to the accumulation of net unrealized investment losses that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block, the policyholder dividend obligation balance as of December 31, 2008 is zero. 130 Operating Results Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess the operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business U.S. GAAP results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) U.S. GAAP results: Revenues $ 7,059 $ 7,981 $ 7,812 Benefits and expenses 7,043 7,691 7,409 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 16 $ 290 $ 403 Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $274 million, from $290 million in 2007 to $16 million in 2008. Results for 2008 include a decrease of $574 million in net realized investment gains, from $589 million in 2007 to $15 million in 2008. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Net investment income, net of interest expense, decreased $301 million, primarily related to lower yields and a decrease in income on joint ventures and limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity method. These decreases to income were partially offset by a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders, primarily due to a decrease in the 2009 dividend scale. The impact of these items contributed to actual cumulative earnings which, when compared to the expected cumulative earnings, resulted in a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $548 million from 2007, compared to 2008. As noted above, as of December 31, 2008, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $433 million. If actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, it could result in volatility in the Closed Block Business earnings. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $113 million, from $403 million in 2006 to $290 million in 2007. Results for 2007 reflect an increase in dividends to policyholders of $213 million reflecting an increase in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders primarily due to an increase in the 2008 dividend scale, as well as an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $92 million. In addition, results for 2007 reflect higher claim costs that continue to increase with the aging of the Closed Block policyholders, while results for 2006 included a reserve release as a result of reserve factor updates. These decreases to income were partially offset by an increase of $79 million in net investment income, net of interest expense, primarily related to higher income on joint venture and limited partnership investments and higher dividend income from public equity investments, and an increase of $108 million in net realized investment gains, from $481 million in 2006 to $589 million in 2007. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Revenues 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $922 million, from $7.981 billion in 2007 to $7.059 billion in 2008, principally driven by the $574 million decrease in net realized investment gains and a decrease of $368 million in net investment income, as discussed above. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $169 million, from $7.812 billion in 2006 to $7.981 billion in 2007, principally driven by the $108 million increase in net realized investment gains and an 131 increase of $109 million in net investment income. The increase in net investment income reflects higher income on joint venture and limited partnership investments and public equity investments. These increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease in premiums, with a corresponding decline in changes in reserves, as the policies in force have matured or terminated. We expect this decline in premiums for this business to continue as these polices continue to mature or terminate. Benefits and Expenses 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $648 million, from $7.691 billion in 2007 to $7.043 billion in 2008. This decrease included a $609 million decline in dividends to policyholders reflecting a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $548 million, as well as a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $61 million, primarily due to a decrease in the 2009 dividend scale, partially offset by the 2008 dividend scale increase, a higher dividend accumulation crediting rate and normal growth. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $282 million, from $7.409 billion in 2006 to $7.691 billion in 2007. This increase reflects a $213 million increase in dividends to policyholders reflecting an increase in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders primarily due to an increase in the 2008 dividend scale, as well as an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $92 million. Policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $54 million primarily reflecting higher claim costs in 2007 that continue to increase with the aging of the Closed Block policyholders, and a reserve release in 2006. Income Taxes Shown below is our income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax provision that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods. Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Tax provision $ (461 ) $ 1,245 $ 1,245 Impact of: Low income housing and other tax credits 82 67 60 Non taxable investment income 52 269 259 Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate 16 68 58 State and local taxes 8 (21 ) (21 ) Change in valuation allowance 32 2 Non deductible expenses (1 ) (10 ) (45 ) Non deductible goodwill impairment (83 ) Other (4 ) (10 ) (20 ) Tax provision excluding these items $ (391 ) $ 1,640 $ 1,538 Tax provision at statutory rate $ (391 ) $ 1,640 $ 1,538 We adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 on January 1, 2007. For additional information regarding the adoption of this guidance, see Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decline in income tax expense primarily reflects the decline in pre tax income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2008. The impact of non taxable investment income on the total tax provision decreased in 2008 as compared to 2007 and 2006, primarily due to a decrease in the dividends received deduction, or DRD, and non deductible investment losses related to corporate owned life insurance. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and in prior years was the primary component of the non taxable investment 132 income shown in the table above, and, as such, is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The DRD for the current period was estimated using information available from current year results, information from 2007 calculations, and estimates to take into account the current years equity market performance. The actual current year DRD can vary from the estimate based on factors such as, but not limited to, changes in the amount of dividends received that are eligible for the DRD, changes in the amount of distributions received from mutual fund investments, changes in the account balances of variable life and annuity contracts, and our taxable income before the DRD. In August 2007, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, issued Revenue Ruling 2007 54, which included, among other items, guidance on the methodology to be followed in calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. In September 2007, the IRS released Revenue Ruling 2007 61. Revenue Ruling 2007 61 suspends Revenue Ruling 2007 54 and informs taxpayers that the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS intend to address through new regulations the issues considered in Revenue Ruling 2007 54, including the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulations or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. These activities had no impact on our 2007 or 2008 results. In December 2006, the IRS completed all fieldwork with regards to its examination of the consolidated federal income tax returns for tax years 2002 and 2003. The final report was initially submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation for their review in April 2007. The final report was resubmitted in March 2008 and again in April 2008. The Joint Committee returned the report to the IRS for additional review of the industry issue regarding the methodology for calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The IRS completed its review of the issue and proposed an adjustment with respect to the calculation of the DRD. In order to expedite receipt of an income tax refund related to the 2002 and 2003 years, we have agreed to such adjustment. Nevertheless, we believe that our return position is technically correct. Therefore, we intend to file a protective refund claim to recover the taxes associated with the agreed upon adjustment and to pursue such other actions as appropriate. The report, with the adjustment, was submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation in October 2008. We were advised on January 2, 2009 that the Joint Committee completed its consideration of the report and has taken no exception to the conclusions reached by the IRS. Accordingly, the final report was processed and a refund was received. The statute of limitations for these years will close on December 31, 2009. These activities had no impact on our 2007 or 2008 results. Discontinued Operations Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP. A summary of the results of discontinued operations by business is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Equity sales, trading and research operations $ (1 ) $ (101 ) $ 9 Real estate investments sold or held for sale 42 63 98 Healthcare operations 2 14 29 International securities operations (1 ) 8 (8 ) Canadian intermediate weekly premium and individual health operations (10 ) Philippine insurance operations (12 ) Dryden Wealth Management (4 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes 42 (16 ) 102 Income tax expense (benefit) 11 (33 ) 31 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes $ 31 $ 17 $ 71 The year ended December 31, 2007 includes a $21 million tax benefit associated with the discontinued international securities operations. 133 Results for our equity sales, trading and research operations known as Prudential Equity Group, previously included in the Financial Advisory segment, have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented, as a result of our decision to exit these operations. Included within the table above for the year ended December 31, 2007 is $104 million of pre tax losses incurred in connection with this decision, primarily related to employee severance costs. We do not anticipate significant additional costs will be incurred in connection with this decision. Real estate investments sold or held for sale reflects the income from discontinued real estate investments. For further information concerning discontinued operations see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these divested businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the results of these divested businesses that have been excluded from adjusted operating income is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Financial Advisory $ (351 ) $ 300 $ 32 Commercial mortgage securitization operations (158 ) (63 ) 43 Exchange shares previously held by Prudential Equity Group (9 ) 9 64 Property and casualty insurance 8 5 12 Prudential Securities capital markets 3 15 Prudential Home Mortgage Company 8 Other 1 Total divested businesses excluded from adjusted operating income $ (506 ) $ 274 $ 151 Financial Advisory In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business, as discussed in more detail below. This business consists of our investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture described below, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters. On July 1, 2003, we combined our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia Corporation, or Wachovia, and formed Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC, or Wachovia Securities, a joint venture currently headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. Wachovia Securities, one of the nations largest retail brokerage and clearing organizations, provides full service securities brokerage and financial advisory services to individuals and businesses. Wachovia and Wachovia Securities are distribution partners for certain of our products, including our mutual funds and individual annuities that are distributed through their financial advisors, bank channel and independent channel. On October 1, 2007, Wachovia completed the acquisition of A.G. Edwards, Inc., or A.G. Edwards, and on January 1, 2008 contributed the retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards to the joint venture. Wachovias contribution of this business entitled us to elect a lookback option (which we elected) that permits us to delay for a period of two years ending on January 1, 2010, our decision on whether or not to make payments to avoid or limit dilution of our 38% ownership interest in the joint venture. During this lookback period, our share in the earnings of the joint venture and one time costs associated with the combination of the A.G. Edwards business with Wachovia Securities is based on our diluted ownership level, which is in the process 134 of being determined. At the end of the lookback period, we may put our joint venture interests to Wachovia based on the appraised value of the joint venture, excluding the A.G. Edwards business, as of January 1, 2008, the date of the combination of the A.G. Edwards business with Wachovia Securities. Based upon the existing agreements and our estimates of the values of the A.G. Edwards business and the joint venture excluding the A.G. Edwards business, we adjusted the carrying value of our ownership interest in the joint venture effective as of January 1, 2008 to reflect the addition of the A.G. Edwards business and the dilution of our 38% ownership interest and to record the value of the above described rights under the lookback option. As a result, we recognized an increase to Additional paid in capital of $1.041 billion, net of tax. Establishment of definitive agreed or appraised values for the A.G. Edwards business and the joint venture excluding the A.G. Edwards business, will result in an adjustment to the credit to equity and a true up to the earnings from the joint venture for any difference between the diluted ownership percentage used to record earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the finally determined diluted ownership percentage. We do not anticipate any such adjustment to have a material effect on our reported results of operations. On October 3, 2008, Wachovia and Wells Fargo & Company, or Wells Fargo, announced that they had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, pursuant to which Wachovia would be merged into Wells Fargo, which would succeed to Wachovias rights and obligations under the joint venture arrangements. As reported by Wells Fargo, this merger was completed on December 31, 2008. On December 4, 2008, we announced our intention, assuming completion of the merger of Wachovia into Wells Fargo, to exercise our right under the lookback option to put our joint venture interests to Wells Fargo. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. As indicated above, the results associated with our joint venture interest have been classified as results of a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. Earnings of the joint venture, which are included in Corporate and Other operations are subject to certain risks pertaining to the joint venture operations, including customer claims, litigation and regulatory investigations affecting Wachovia Securities businesses. Such customer claims, litigation and regulatory matters include matters typical for retail securities brokerage and clearing operations and matters unique to the joint venture operations. In recent months, following the failure in early 2008 of the auctions which set the rates for most auction rate securities, Wachovia Securities has become the subject of customer complaints, legal actions, including a putative class action, and investigations by securities regulators and agencies relating to Wachovia Securities role in the underwriting, sale and auction of auction rate securities. On August 15, 2008, Wachovia announced that it had reached an agreement in principle for a global settlement of investigations concerning the underwriting, sale and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities by subsidiaries of Wachovia Securities and had recorded an increase to legal reserves. The losses from the Financial Advisory business of $351 million in 2008 include our share of earnings from Wachovia Securities, on a pre tax basis, of a loss of $331 million, based on our estimated diluted ownership level, as discussed above, compared to income of $370 million in 2007. The results of Wachovia Securities for 2008 include a charge of $355 million related to the agreement in principle for a global settlement concerning the underwriting, sale and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities, as discussed above and transition costs of $174 million related to the combination of the A.G. Edwards business with Wachovia Securities. Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, were previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment. As of December 31, 2008, our commercial mortgage securitization operations held loans with a principal balance of $241 million, whose fair values continue to be subject to changes in credit spreads. This represents a decrease from about $750 million as of December 31, 2007. The losses of $158 million in 2008 primarily reflect net realized and unrealized losses on the loans, bonds and hedges from instability in the commercial mortgage backed securities market during 2008. 135 Exchange shares previously held by Prudential Equity Group In 2007, we exited the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group, and the results of these operations are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning Prudential Equity Group. We retained certain securities relating to trading exchange memberships of these former operations. These securities were received in 2006 in connection with the commencement of public trading of stock exchange shares. The changes in the fair value of these shares are reflected within divested businesses for all periods presented. Property and Casualty Insurance In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies that operated nationally in 48 states outside of New Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group, and our New Jersey property and casualty insurance companies to Palisades Group. Results of these property and casualty insurance operations are reflected as a divested business for all periods presented. We have retained liabilities for pre closing litigation and obligations under reinsurance contracts provided in connection with potential adverse loss development on the business sold to Liberty Mutual Group. Prudential Securities Capital Markets In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities capital markets activities in which we exited the lead managed equity underwriting business for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business. Results of these operations are reflected as a divested business for all periods presented. As of December 31, 2008 we had remaining assets amounting to $92 million related to Prudential Securities institutional fixed income activities. Prudential Home Mortgage Company During 1996 and 1997, we sold substantially all of our residential first mortgage banking and related operations of Prudential Home Mortgage Company, Inc. and its affiliates. Results of these operations are reflected as a divested business for all periods presented. We remain liable with respect to certain claims concerning these operations prior to sale which we believe are adequately reserved. Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, are experience rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading and are carried at fair value. These trading investments are reflected on the statements of financial position as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in Net investment income. Commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the statements of financial position as Commercial mortgage and other loans. Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains and losses on available for sale securities, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience rated contracts, which are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. The 136 result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will accrue to the contractholders. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 include the recognition of net investment losses of $1.734 billion, and net investment gains of zero million and $35 million, respectively, on Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. These net investment gains and losses primarily represent interest rate related mark to market adjustments, which include the impact of changes in credit spreads, on fixed maturity securities. Consistent with our treatment of Realized investment gains (losses), net, these gains and losses, which are expected to ultimately accrue to the contractholders, are excluded from adjusted operating income. In addition, results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 include decreases of $1.163 billion, $13 million and $11 million, respectively, in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments that support these experience rated contracts. These liability changes are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances and are also excluded from adjusted operating income. Contractholder liabilities do not reflect declines in recorded asset values of $586 million, which we expect to recover in future periods through increases in recorded asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. In addition, as prescribed by U.S. GAAP, changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans held in our general account, other than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in value are reflected as a change in the liability to fully participating contractholders in the current period. Included in the amounts above related to the change in the liability to contractholders are decreases related to commercial mortgage and other loans of $144 million, and increases related to commercial mortgage and other loans of $40 million and $14 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities As discussed in Notes 2 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted SFAS No. 157 effective January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Fair value is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible to us for identical assets or liabilities. These generally provide the most reliable evidence and are used to measure fair value whenever available. Active markets are defined as having the following for the measured asset/liability: i) many transactions, ii) current prices, iii) price quotes not varying substantially among market makers, iv) narrow bid/ask spreads and v) most information publicly available. Our Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include certain cash equivalents and short term investments, equity securities and derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange market. Prices are obtained from readily available sources for market transactions involving identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 Fair value is based on significant inputs, other than Level 1 inputs, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability through corroboration with observable market data. Level 2 inputs include quoted market prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities, quoted market prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar assets or liabilities and other market observable inputs. Our Level 2 assets and liabilities include: fixed maturities (corporate public and private bonds, most government securities, certain asset and mortgage backed securities, etc.), certain equity securities and commercial mortgage loans, short term investments and certain cash equivalents (primarily commercial paper) and certain over the counter derivatives. Valuations are generally obtained from third party pricing services for identical or comparable assets or liabilities, or through the use of 137 valuation methodologies using observable market inputs. Prices from services are validated through comparison to trade data and internal estimates of current fair value, developed using market observable inputs and economic indicators. Level 3 Fair value is based on at least one or more significant unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. These inputs reflect our assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities primarily include: certain private fixed maturities and equity securities, certain manually priced public equity securities and fixed maturities, including certain asset backed securities and securities where we chose to over ride pricing information received from third parties as discussed below, certain highly structured over the counter derivative contracts, certain commercial mortgage loans, certain consolidated real estate funds for which we are the general partner, and embedded derivatives resulting from certain products with guaranteed benefits. Prices are determined using valuation methodologies such as option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and other similar techniques. Non binding broker quotes, which we utilize when pricing service information is not available, are reviewed for reasonableness based on our understanding of the market, and are generally considered Level 3. Under certain conditions, we may conclude the prices received from independent third party pricing services or brokers are not reasonable or reflective of market activity. In those instances, we may choose to over ride the third party pricing information or quotes received and apply internally developed values to the related assets or liabilities. In such cases, the valuations are generally classified as Level 3. As of December 31, 2008 such over rides on a net basis were not material. The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of December 31, 2008, for Consolidated, Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business. Consolidated Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale $ $ 155,787 $ 2,269 $ $ 158,056 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 748 12,982 145 13,875 Other trading account assets 143 9,882 1,396 (7,085 ) 4,336 Equity securities, available for sale 3,801 1,939 325 6,065 Commercial mortgage and other loans 517 56 573 Other long term investments 246 265 1,015 1,526 Short term investments 2,601 1,874 4,475 Cash and cash equivalents 2,512 8,834 11,346 Other assets 1,255 2,500 26 3,781 Sub total excluding separate account assets 11,306 194,580 5,232 (7,085 ) 204,033 Separate account assets(3) 56,362 70,953 19,780 147,095 Total assets $ 67,668 $ 265,533 $ 25,012 $ (7,085 ) $ 351,128 Future policy benefits 3,229 3,229 Long term debt 324 324 Other liabilities 57 6,692 139 (5,948 ) 940 Total liabilities $ 57 $ 6,692 $ 3,692 $ (5,948 ) $ 4,493 138 Financial Services Businesses Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale $ $ 117,393 $ 1,760 $ $ 119,153 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 748 12,982 145 13,875 Other trading account assets 143 9,774 1,384 (7,085 ) 4,216 Equity securities, available for sale 1,548 1,818 299 3,665 Commercial mortgage and other loans 517 56 573 Other long term investments 246 54 1,015 1,315 Short term investments 1,614 1,377 2,991 Cash and cash equivalents 2,379 7,014 9,393 Other assets 1,255 2,500 26 3,781 Sub total excluding separate account assets 7,933 153,429 4,685 (7,085 ) 158,962 Separate account assets(3) 56,362 70,953 19,780 147,095 Total assets $ 64,295 $ 224,382 $ 24,465 $ (7,085 ) $ 306,057 Future policy benefits 3,229 3,229 Long term debt 324 324 Other liabilities(4) (16 ) 6,692 138 (5,948 ) 866 Total liabilities $ (16 ) $ 6,692 $ 3,691 $ (5,948 ) $ 4,419 Closed Block Business Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale $ $ 38,394 $ 509 $ $ 38,903 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Other trading account assets 108 12 120 Equity securities, available for sale 2,253 121 26 2,400 Commercial mortgage and other loans Other long term investments 211 211 Short term investments 987 497 1,484 Cash and cash equivalents 133 1,820 1,953 Other assets Sub total excluding separate account assets 3,373 41,151 547 45,071 Separate account assets(3) Total assets $ 3,373 $ 41,151 $ 547 $ $ 45,071 Future policy benefits Long term debt Other liabilities 73 1 74 Total liabilities $ 73 $ $ 1 $ $ 74 (1) The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 7%, 8% and 1% for Consolidated, Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 3% for both Consolidated and Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. (2) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty as permitted by FASB Interpretation No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts and FSP FIN 39 1, Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39. (3) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (4) The negative Other liability amount for Financial Services Businesses reflects the impact of inter company eliminations. For additional information regarding the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value by hierarchy level see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 139 The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, can have a significant impact on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, the determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities may require the application of a greater degree of judgment given current market conditions, as the ability to value assets can be significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity. The following sections describe the key estimates and assumptions surrounding certain assets and liabilities, measured at fair value on a recurring basis, that could have a significant impact on our results of operations or involve the use of significant unobservable inputs. Information regarding Separate Account Assets is excluded as the risk of assets for these categories is ultimately borne by our customers and policyholders. Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities Our public fixed maturity securities include investments in corporate securities, government securities and various structured securities, including asset backed and mortgage backed securities. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are generally based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Prices are sourced from multiple pricing services, and a vendor hierarchy is maintained by asset type based on historical pricing experience and vendor expertise. We generally receive prices from multiple pricing services for each security, but ultimately use the price from the pricing service highest in the vendor hierarchy based on the respective asset type. In order to validate reasonability, prices are reviewed by our internal asset managers through comparison with directly observed recent market trades and internal estimates of current fair value, developed using market observable inputs and economic indicators. Consistent with the fair value hierarchy described above, securities with validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2. If we conclude pricing information received from third party pricing services is not reflective of market activity or other inputs we have observed in the market, we may challenge the price through a formal process with the pricing service. If the pricing service updates the price to be more reasonable in comparison to our presented market observations, the security remains within Level 2. If we ultimately conclude that pricing information received from the independent pricing service is not reflective of market activity, we use values based on non binding broker quotes, if available. If we conclude values from both pricing services and brokers are not reflective of market activity, we may over ride the information from the pricing service or broker with an internally developed valuation. As of December 31, 2008, such over rides, in aggregate, were not material. In circumstances where vendor pricing is not available, we also use internally developed valuations or non binding broker quotes to determine fair value. These estimates may use significant unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Circumstances where observable market data is not available may include events such as market illiquidity and credit events related to the security. Pricing service over rides, internally developed valuations and non binding broker quotes are generally included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Despite the dislocated markets and low levels of liquidity at the end of 2008, pricing received from the independent pricing services was not materially different from our internal estimates of current market value for the vast majority of our fixed maturity portfolio. As a result, we generally continued to use the price provided by the independent pricing service under our normal pricing protocol. Our private fixed maturities are primarily comprised of investments in private placement securities originated by our internal private asset managers. The fair values of these private fixed maturities are primarily determined using a discounted cash flow model, which utilizes a discount rate based upon the average of spread surveys collected from private market intermediaries who are active in both primary and secondary transactions, and takes into account, among other factors, the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. Generally, these securities have been reflected within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. For certain of these securities, including those that are distressed, the discounted cash flow model may also incorporate significant unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Accordingly, these securities have been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Private fixed maturities also include debt investments in funds that, in addition to a stated coupon, pay a return based upon the results of the underlying portfolios. The fair values of these securities are determined by reference to the funds net asset value (NAV). Any restrictions on our ability to redeem our interests in these 140 funds at NAV are considered to have a de minimis effect on the fair value. Since the NAV at which the funds trade can be observed by redemption and subscription transactions between third parties, the fair values of these investments have been reflected within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. Our Level 3 fixed maturity securities generally include certain public fixed maturities and private fixed maturities priced internally based on observable and unobservable inputs. As of December 31, 2008, about half of our Level 3 fixed maturity securities were public fixed maturities, with values primarily based on non binding broker quotes, and about half were private fixed maturities, with values primary based on internally developed models, as discussed above. Significant unobservable inputs used include: issue specific credit adjustments, material non public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cashflows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and non binding quotes from market makers. These inputs are usually considered unobservable, as not all market participants will have access to this data. As of December 31, 2008 we classified approximately $122 million of our investments in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as Level 3, primarily reflecting securities valued based on non binding broker quotes. The vast majority of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages are valued using information from independent pricing services, and are included in Level 2 based on the process described above. Net realized and unrealized losses for Level 3 Available for Sale fixed maturities totaled $410 million and $397 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. For additional information regarding our holdings of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, see, Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. While the fair value of these investments, as well as others within our portfolio of fixed maturities, has declined in recent quarters due to increased credit spreads and illiquidity in the financial markets, we believe the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than that reflected by their current fair value. Valuation of Equity Securities Equity securities consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, privately traded securities, as well as common stock mutual fund shares. The fair values of most publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and are classified within Level 1 in our fair value hierarchy. Estimated fair values for privately traded equity securities are determined using valuation and discounted cash flow models that require a substantial level of judgment. In determining the fair value of certain privately traded equity securities the discounted cash flow model may also use unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Most privately traded equity securities are classified within Level 3. The fair values of common stock mutual fund shares that transact regularly (but do not trade in active markets because they are not publicly available) are based on transaction prices of identical fund shares and are classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. The fair values of preferred equity securities are based on prices obtained from independent pricing services and, in order to validate reasonability, are compared with recent market trades we have directly observed. Accordingly, these securities are generally classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. Impact of Valuation of Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities on Results of Operations The impact our determination of fair value for fixed maturity and equity securities has on our results of operations is dependent on our classification of the security as either trading, available for sale, or held to maturity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. Our investments classified as held to maturity are carried at amortized cost. In addition, investments classified as available for sale, as well as those classified as held to maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in fair value is other than temporary. When it is determined that a decline in value is other than temporary, the carrying value of the security is impaired to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to Realized investment gains (losses), net in the statement of operations and is included in income from continuing operations under U.S. GAAP but excluded from adjusted operating income. The level of impairment losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when 141 economic conditions improve. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses for a discussion of the effects of impairments on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity other than temporary impairments, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities below. Valuation of Commercial Mortgage Loans Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, we elected the fair value option for certain loans held within the commercial mortgage operations of the asset management segment. Specifically, the fair value option was elected for funded commercial mortgage loans held for sale that were originated beginning January 1, 2008. In addition, we elected the fair value option for fixed rate commercial mortgage loans held for investment that were held at December 31, 2007 and for such loans originated beginning January 1, 2008. We elected the fair value option for the loan programs mentioned above primarily to eliminate the need for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, while still achieving an offset in earnings from the associated interest rate derivative hedges. Due to volatility in the credit markets, we experienced unexpected volatility in the fair value of the aforementioned fixed rate commercial mortgage loans held for investment that was not substantially offset by the associated interest rate derivative hedges during the quarter ended March 31, 2008. Therefore, we decided to no longer elect the fair value option on loans held for investment that were originated after March 31, 2008, and have applied hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The fair value of loans held for investment and accounted for using the Fair Value Option discussed above is determined based on the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the appropriate U.S. Treasury rate, adjusted for the current market spread for similar quality loans. Since the interest rate and market spread assumptions for similar quality loans are generally observable based upon market transactions, the fair value of loans held for investment has been reflected within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. The fair value of loans held for sale and accounted for using the Fair Value Option discussed above, as well as those loans reported at fair value on a non recurring basis accounted for using the lower of cost or market approach is determined utilizing pricing indicators from the whole loan market, which we consider our principal exit market for these loans. We have evaluated the valuation inputs used for these assets, including the terms of the loans, prevailing interest rates and credit risk, and deemed that the primary pricing inputs are Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Valuation of Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments carried at fair value include limited partnerships which we consolidate because we are either deemed to exercise control or are considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. These entities are considered investment companies and follow specialized industry accounting whereby their assets are carried at fair value. The investments held by these entities include various feeder fund investments in underlying master funds (whose underlying holdings generally include public fixed maturities and equity securities), as well as wholly owned real estate held within other investment funds. The fair value of the feeder fund investments in master funds is determined by reference to the master funds net asset value (NAV). Any restrictions on our ability to redeem our interests in these funds at NAV are considered to have a de minimis effect on fair value. Since the NAV at which these funds trade can be observed by redemption and subscription transactions with third parties, the fair values of feeder fund investments in master funds have been reflected within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. 142 The fair value of wholly owned real estate held in consolidated investment funds is determined through an independent appraisal process. The appraisals generally utilize a discounted cash flow model, following an income approach, that incorporates various assumptions including rental revenue, operating expenses and discount rates. These appraisals and the related assumptions are updated at least annually, and incorporate historical property experience and any observable market data, including any market transactions. Since many of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the valuation, the real estate investments within other long term investments have been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Consolidated real estate investment funds classified as Level 3 as of December 31, 2008 totaled approximately $1.0 billion. Our direct investment in these funds is not material, and the majority of the assets recorded as a result of the consolidation of these funds is offset by a minority interest liability, which liability is not considered to be fair value and therefore, not included in fair value reporting above. Valuation of Derivative Instruments Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets, within Other trading account assets, or Other long term investments, or as liabilities, within Other liabilities, except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair values of derivative contracts are determined based on quoted prices in active exchanges or through the use of valuation models. The fair values of derivative contracts can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, expected returns, nonperformance risk and liquidity as well as other factors. Liquidity valuation adjustments are made to reflect the cost of exiting significant risk positions, and consider the bid ask spread, maturity, complexity, and other specific attributes of the underlying derivative position. Fair values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions including those related to counterparty behavior used in valuation models. Our over the counter, or OTC, derivative contracts are executed under master netting agreements with counterparties with a Credit Support Annex, or CSA, which is a bilateral ratings sensitive agreement that requires collateral postings at established credit threshold levels. These agreements protect our interest, as well as those of our counterparties, should either party suffer a credit rating deterioration. The vast majority of our derivative agreements are with highly rated major international financial institutions. Consistent with the practice of major international financial institutions, we use the credit spread embedded in the LIBOR interest rate curve to reflect nonperformance risk when determining the fair value of our derivative assets and liabilities. We believe this credit spread is an appropriate estimate of the nonperformance risk for derivative related assets and liabilities between highly rated institutions. Our exchange traded futures and options include treasury futures, Eurodollar futures, commodity futures, Eurodollar options and commodity options. Exchange traded futures and options are valued using quoted prices in active markets and are classified within Level 1 in our fair value hierarchy. The majority of our derivative positions are traded in the OTC derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. OTC derivatives classified within Level 2 are valued using models generally accepted in the financial services industry that use actively quoted or observable market input values from external market data providers, non binding broker dealer quotations, third party pricing vendors and or recent trading activity. The fair values of most OTC derivatives, including forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps, commodity swaps, commodity forward contracts, single name credit default swaps and to be announced forward contracts on highly rated mortgage backed securities issued by U.S. government sponsored entities are determined using discounted cash flow models. The fair values of European style option contracts are determined using Black Scholes option pricing models. These models key assumptions include the contractual terms of the respective contract, along with significant observable inputs, including interest rates, currency rates, credit spreads, yield curves, equity prices, index dividend yields, nonperformance risk and volatility. Most OTC derivative contracts have bid and ask prices that can be readily observed in the market place. Our policy is to use mid market pricing consistent with our best estimate of fair value. The bid ask spreads for derivatives classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are generally wider than derivatives classified within Level 2 thus requiring more judgment in estimating the mid market price of such derivatives. The fair values of OTC derivative assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $1.3 billion and $140 million, respectively, without giving consideration to the impact of netting, as of December 31, 2008. 143 Derivatives that are valued based upon models with unobservable market input values or input values from less actively traded or less developed markets are classified within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Derivatives classified as Level 3 include first to default credit basket swaps, look back equity options and other structured options. For additional information regarding embedded derivatives in our annuity and retirement products classified as Level 3, see Valuation of Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features below. The fair values of first to default credit basket swaps are derived from relevant observable inputs such as: individual credit default spreads, interest rates, recovery rates and unobservable model specific input values such as correlation between different credits within the same basket. Look back equity options and other structured options and derivatives are valued using simulation models such as the Monte Carlo technique. The input values for look back equity options are derived from observable market indices such as interest rates, dividend yields, equity indices as well as unobservable model specific input values such as certain volatility parameters. Level 3 methodologies are validated through periodic comparison of our fair values to broker dealers values. All realized and unrealized changes in fair value of non dealer related derivatives, with the exception of the effective portion of cash flow hedges and effective hedges of net investments in foreign operations, are recorded in current earnings. Generally, the changes in fair value of such non dealer related derivatives, excluding those that qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. For additional information regarding the impact of changes in fair value of derivative instruments on our results of operations see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses below. We hold externally managed investments in the European market, as discussed in greater detail under Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. These investments are valued using market observable inputs including benchmark yields and reported trades and are classified as Level 2 for fair value reporting. The fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with these investments declined in 2008 due to increased credit spreads in the applicable financial markets, and as of December 31, 2008 remains in a loss position on a cumulative basis as a result of the recent stress in the credit markets. However, we believe the investment fundamentals remain sound, and the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than reflected by the current fair value of the embedded derivatives. Valuation of Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features Our liability for future policy benefits includes general account liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts, including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (GMIWB). While these guarantees primarily relate to the optional living benefit features of our Individual Annuities segment, they are also included in certain variable annuities in our International Insurance segment and certain retirement account based group variable annuities in our Retirement segment. These benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. The expected cash flows are discounted using forward LIBOR interest rates, which are commonly viewed as being consistent with our claims paying ratings of AA quality. Since insurance liabilities are senior to debt, we believe that reflecting our claims paying ratings in the valuation of the liability appropriately takes into consideration our own risk of nonperformance. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally developed models with option pricing techniques. The models calculate a risk neutral valuation, generally using the same interest rate assumptions to both project and discount future rider fees and benefit payments, and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. Significant inputs to these models include capital market assumptions, such as interest rate and implied volatility assumptions, as well as various policyholder behavior assumptions that are actuarially determined, including lapse rates, benefit utilization rates, mortality rates and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually, and updated based upon historical experience and give consideration to any observable market data, including market transactions such as acquisitions and reinsurance transactions. 144 Since many of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the liability valuation, the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. The change in fair value of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB resulted in an increase in the total liability of $3.061 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. This change was significantly offset by changes in value of related hedging instruments, primarily in our Individual Annuities segment as described in more detail under Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Valuation of Other Assets and Other Liabilities Other assets carried at fair value include U.S. Treasury bills held within our global commodities group whose fair values are determined consistent with similar securities described above under Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities. Included in other liabilities are various derivatives contracts executed within our global commodities group, including exchange traded futures, foreign currency and commodity contracts. The fair values of these derivative instruments are determined consistent with similar derivative instruments described above under Valuation of Derivative Instruments. Valuation of Trading Account Assets Trading account assets, including trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, consist primarily of public corporate bonds, treasuries, equity securities and derivatives whose fair values are determined consistent with similar instruments described above in Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities, Valuation of Equity Securities and Valuation of Derivative Instruments. Valuation of Cash Equivalents and Short term Investments Cash equivalents and short term investments carried at fair value include money market instruments, commercial paper and other highly liquid debt instruments. Money market instruments are generally valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible to us for identical assets and are primarily classified as Level 1. The remaining instruments in the Cash Equivalents and Short term Investments category are typically not traded in active markets; however, their fair values are based on market observable inputs and, accordingly, these investments have been classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy. Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses Realized investment gains and losses are generated from numerous sources, including the sale of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other types of investments, as well as adjustments to the cost basis of investments for other than temporary impairments. Realized investment gains and losses are also generated from prepayment premiums received on private fixed maturity securities, recoveries of principal on previously impaired securities, provisions for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans, fair value changes on commercial mortgage operations loans, fair value changes on embedded derivatives and derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, except those derivatives used in our capacity as a broker or dealer. We perform quarterly impairment reviews to determine when a decline in value is other than temporary. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and duration of the decline in value; the reasons for the decline (credit event, currency, or interest rate related, including general credit spread widening); our ability and intent to hold our investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we write down the value of the security to its fair value, with a corresponding charge recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Historically, the causes of other than temporary impairments have been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in impairments to other securities within the same industry or 145 geographic region. However, as discussed in more detail below, certain of the other than temporary impairments recognized for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 resulted from broad market concerns over the sub prime mortgage market, and liquidity concerns. In addition, for our impairment review of asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, we forecast our best estimate of the prospective future cash flows of the security to determine if the present value of those cash flows, discounted using the effective yield of the most recent interest accrual rate, has decreased from the previous reporting period. When a decrease from the prior reporting period has occurred and the securitys fair value is less than its carrying value, an other than temporary impairment is recognized by writing the security down to fair value. Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, beginning in the third quarter of 2008, our determinations of whether a decline in value is other than temporary have placed greater emphasis on our internal analysis of the underlying credit and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, versus the extent and duration of a decline in fair value. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity other than temporary impairments, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities below. The level of other than temporary impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. We may realize additional credit and interest rate related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. In light of the unprecedented current market conditions, and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy of certain portfolios, and are currently evaluating our going forward trading strategies. Other than temporary impairments, interest rate related losses and credit losses (other than those related to certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors) are excluded from adjusted operating income. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment, the impaired security is accounted for as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income, and included in adjusted operating income in future periods based upon the amount and timing of expected future cash flows of the security, if the recoverable value of the investment, based upon cash flows we can reasonably estimate, is greater than the carrying value of the investment after the impairment. We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as well as the interest rate environment. We use interest and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. We use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our non U.S. businesses. We also use equity based derivatives to hedge the equity risks embedded in some of our annuity products. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to be announced mortgage backed securities primarily related to our mortgage dollar roll program. Many of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and, consequently, we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily account for the related assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our derivative activities can contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income. Adjusted operating income excludes Realized investment gains (losses), net, (other than those representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings, current period yield adjustments, or product derivatives and the effect of any related economic hedging program) and related charges and adjustments. 146 The following tables set forth Realized investment gains (losses), net, by investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and gross realized investment gains and losses on fixed maturity securities by segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For a discussion of our general account investment portfolio and related results, including overall income yield and investment income, as well as our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording impairment charges, see General Account Investments below. For additional details regarding adjusted operating income, which is our measure of performance for the segments of our Financial Services Businesses, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net: Financial Services Businesses $ (2,390 ) $ 24 $ 293 Closed Block Business 15 589 481 Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net $ (2,375 ) $ 613 $ 774 Financial Services Businesses: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments(1) $ (1,646 ) $ (64 ) $ (219 ) Equity securities (941 ) 297 122 Derivative instruments(2) 339 (336 ) 171 Other (142 ) 127 219 Total (2,390 ) 24 293 Related adjustments(3) 123 (65 ) (227 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments $ (2,267 ) $ (41 ) $ 66 Related charges(4) $ 45 $ (55 ) $ 17 Closed Block Business: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity investments(1) $ (451 ) $ 182 $ 279 Equity securities (441 ) 337 187 Derivative instruments 958 61 (68 ) Other (51 ) 9 83 Total $ 15 $ 589 $ 481 Realized investment gains (losses) by segment Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses: Gross realized investment gains: Individual Annuities $ 90 $ 35 $ 21 Retirement 75 114 56 Asset Management 3 3 Individual Life 18 20 22 Group Insurance 18 32 29 International Insurance 277 85 98 International Investments 1 60 Corporate and Other Operations 20 16 57 Total 499 305 346 Gross realized investment losses: Individual Annuities (204 ) (43 ) (99 ) Retirement (824 ) (137 ) (167 ) Asset Management (52 ) (17 ) (1 ) Individual Life (163 ) (25 ) (88 ) Group Insurance (285 ) (42 ) (41 ) International Insurance (434 ) (64 ) (91 ) International Investments (1 ) Corporate and Other Operations (183 ) (40 ) (78 ) Total (2,145 ) (369 ) (565 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Financial Services Businesses $ (1,646 ) $ (64 ) $ (219 ) Closed Block Business: Gross realized investment gains $ 564 $ 506 $ 517 Gross realized investment losses (1,015 ) (324 ) (238 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Closed Block Business $ (451 ) $ 182 $ 279 147 (1) The Financial Services Businesses include $970 million and $65 million in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. The Closed Block Business includes $463 million and $15 million in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. The year ended December 31, 2007 also includes losses of $76 million for the Financial Services Businesses and $11 million for the Closed Block Business relating to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. (2) The Financial Services Businesses include $621 million and $171 million of losses in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. (3) Related adjustments include that portion of Realized investment gains (losses), net, that are included in adjusted operating income, including those pertaining to certain derivative contracts, as well as those that represent profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors. Related adjustments also include that portion of Asset management fees and other income that are excluded from adjusted operating income, including the change in value due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these related adjustments. (4) Reflects charges that are related to realized investment gains (losses), net, and excluded from adjusted operating income, as described more fully in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2008 were $2,390 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $24 million in 2007. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $1,646 million in 2008, compared to net realized losses of $64 million in 2007, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 466 $ 265 Private bond prepayment premiums 33 40 Total 499 305 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (354 ) (219 ) Other than temporary impairments (1,679 ) (139 ) Credit related losses on sales (112 ) (11 ) Total (2,145 ) (369 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (1,646 ) $ (64 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 112 $ 46 (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $354 million in 2008 were primarily due to lower prices resulting from credit spread widening and liquidity concerns. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $219 million in 2007, mainly in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, were primarily related to credit spread increases in the credit markets resulting generally from concerns over sub prime mortgage exposures, and interest rates. The gross losses in 2007 include $76 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2008 and 2007. 148 Net realized losses on equity securities were $941 million in 2008, of which net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $126 million, and other than temporary impairments were $815 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $297 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $340 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $43 million. Net realized gains on equity securities in 2007 were primarily due to sales of Japanese equities in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations from portfolio restructuring and equity sales in our Korean Life Planner operations. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized gains on derivatives were $339 million in 2008, compared to net realized losses of $336 million in 2007. The net derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $985 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration, net gains of $226 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments in our domestic investment portfolio and net gains of $124 million related to equity market hedges used in our asset management business. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $621 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net losses of $456 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. Net mark to market gains on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration includes the impact of long duration floating to fixed interest rate swaps we entered into in order to add duration exposure to our Japanese investment portfolio. Based on an evaluation of recent market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, we have terminated or offset many of these interest rate swaps in consideration of, among other things, the interest rate environment, thereby monetizing a portion of the mark to market gains. We continue to manage our interest rate risk profile in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and we expect to resume implementing strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions changes. The net derivative losses in 2007 primarily reflect net losses of $171 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market, net losses of $66 million from interest rate derivative contracts mainly used to manage the duration of the U.S. dollar fixed maturity investment portfolio, and net losses of $77 million due to the impact of increased credit spreads on credit derivatives used to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure. For information regarding our externally managed investments in the European market, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. For information regarding our methodology for determining the fair value of our derivative instruments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Derivative Instruments. Net realized losses on other investments were $142 million in 2008, primarily related to mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our divested commercial mortgage securitization operations due to instability in the commercial mortgage backed securities market during 2008. For additional information regarding these operations, see Divested Businesses. Net realized losses on other investments in 2008 included $39 million of other than temporary impairments on investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Net realized gains on other investments were $127 million in 2007, primarily related to gains from real estate related investments. During 2008 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $2,533 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $185 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2007. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Financial Services Businesses Public fixed maturity securities $ 1,549 $ 123 Private fixed maturity securities 130 16 Total fixed maturity securities 1,679 139 Equity securities 815 43 Other invested assets(1) 39 3 Total $ 2,533 $ 185 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. 149 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All OtherInvestments Total (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities Financial Services Businesses Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer (1) $ 265 $ 476 $ 741 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 705 233 938 Total $ 970 $ 709 $ 1,679 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by credit spread widening as discussed above, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $50 million related to American International Group. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the Japanese equity markets and losses in our mutual fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and finance sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $65 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. For information regarding the fair value methodology used in determining our other than temporary impairments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities, and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Equity Securities. As mentioned above, fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2008 also included a $75 million loss associated with this bankruptcy filing relating to the unsecured portion of our counterparty exposure on derivative transactions we had entered into with Lehman Brothers and its affiliates. We replaced these derivative positions with various other counterparties. The loss was included in Asset management fees and other income, under the broker dealer accounting model followed by our affiliated derivative subsidiary that executed these transactions, and was excluded from adjusted operating income as a related adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As discussed above, previously recognized other than temporary impairments are accreted into net investment income, and included in adjusted operating income if the recoverable value of the investment based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the carrying value of the investment after the impairment. Net investment income for 2008 included approximately $50 million from the accretion of other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. 150 Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2008 were $15 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $589 million in 2007. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $451 million in 2008, compared to net realized gains of $182 million in 2007, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 537 $ 467 Private bond prepayment premiums 27 39 Total 564 506 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (259 ) (262 ) Other than temporary impairments (718 ) (48 ) Credit related losses on sales (38 ) (14 ) Total (1,015 ) (324 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (451 ) $ 182 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 278 $ 205 (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $278 million in 2008 were primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $259 million in 2008 were primarily due to lower prices resulting from credit spread widening and liquidity concerns. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. In light of the unprecedented current market conditions and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we curtailed our active trading policy, which resulted in a lower level of realized losses in this portfolio than might otherwise have been incurred, and are continuing to limit our active trading strategy for this portfolio while we evaluate our going forward trading strategies for the Closed Block Business. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $205 million in 2007 were also primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $262 million in 2007 included $11 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized losses on equity securities were $441 million in 2008, of which net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $54 million, and other than temporary impairments were $387 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $337 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on equity securities were $369 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $32 million. Results for both periods reflect sales pursuant to our active management strategy, which is currently being evaluated as noted above. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized gains on derivatives were $958 million in 2008, compared to $61 million in 2007. Derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $824 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net gains of $149 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these gains are net losses of $105 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Derivative gains in 2007 primarily reflect the impact of interest derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio partially 151 offset by net losses on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. For information regarding our methodology for determining the fair value of our derivative instruments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Derivative Instruments. Net realized losses on other investments were $51 million in 2008, including $22 million related to other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships. Net realized gains on other investments were $9 million in 2007. During 2008 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $1,127 million attributable to the Closed Block Business, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $86 million attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2007. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Closed Block Business Public fixed maturity securities $ 690 $ 29 Private fixed maturity securities 28 19 Total fixed maturity securities 718 48 Equity securities 387 32 Other invested assets(1) 22 6 Total $ 1,127 $ 86 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized bySub Prime Mortgages All OtherInvestments Total (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities Closed Block Business Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 137 $ 179 $ 316 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 326 76 402 Total $ 463 $ 255 $ 718 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in the fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $16 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $30 million related to American International Group. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the equity markets. Other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by credit spread increases as discussed above, interest rates, 152 downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $15 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. For information regarding the fair value methodology used in determining our other than temporary impairments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities, and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Equity Securities. As discussed above, previously recognized other than temporary impairments are accreted into net investment income if the recoverable value of the investment based on the expected future cash flows is greater than the carrying value of the investment after the impairment. Net investment income for 2008 included approximately $22 million from the accretion of other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. 2007 to 2006 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment gains in 2007 were $24 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $293 million in 2006. Net realized losses on fixed maturity investments were $64 million in 2007 and $219 million in 2006, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Investments Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 265 $ 314 Private bond prepayment premiums 40 32 Total 305 346 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (219 ) (517 ) Other than temporary impairments (139 ) (23 ) Credit related losses (11 ) (25 ) Total (369 ) (565 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Investments $ (64 ) $ (219 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 46 $ (203 ) (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Gross realized losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $219 million in 2007, mainly in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, were primarily related to credit spread increases in the credit markets resulting generally from concerns over sub prime mortgage exposures, and interest rates. The gross losses in 2007 include $76 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Gross realized losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $517 million in 2006, mainly in the Retirement, Individual Annuities, and International Insurance segments, were primarily interest rate related. Interest rate related losses on fixed maturities primarily reflect sales of lower yielding bonds in a higher rate environment, primarily in the first half of 2006, in order to meet various cash flow needs and manage portfolio duration, and reflect our strategy for maximizing portfolio yield while minimizing the amount of taxes on realized capital gains. Interest rate related losses, which are excluded from adjusted operating income, where the 153 proceeds from the sale of the securities are reinvested, will generally result in higher net investment income to be included in adjusted operating income in future periods. See General Account Investments Investment Results for a discussion of current period yields of the Financial Services Businesses. Net realized gains on equity securities were $297 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $340 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $43 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $122 million in 2006, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $136 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $14 million. Net realized gains on equity securities for both periods were primarily due to sales of Japanese equities in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations from portfolio restructuring and equity sales in our Korean Life Planner operations. Net realized losses on derivatives were $336 million in 2007, compared to net realized gains of $171 million in 2006. The net derivative losses in 2007 primarily reflect net losses of $171 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market, net losses of $66 million from interest rate derivative contracts mainly used to manage the duration of the U.S. dollar fixed maturity investment portfolio, and net losses of $77 million due to the impact of increased credit spreads on credit derivatives used to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure. The derivative gains in 2006 primarily relate to net gains of $86 million from interest rate derivative contracts mainly used to manage the duration of the U.S. dollar fixed maturity investment portfolio, net gains of $37 million from foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses, mainly driven by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, and net gains of $27 million on credit derivatives used to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure. For information regarding our externally managed investments in the European market, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. Net realized gains on other investments were $127 million in 2007, primarily related to gains from real estate related investments. Net realized gains on other investments were $219 million in 2006, primarily related to gains from real estate related investments and loan securitizations. As set forth in the following table, during 2007 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $185 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $46 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Financial Services Businesses Public fixed maturity investments $ 123 $ 16 Private fixed maturity investments 16 7 Total fixed maturity securities 139 23 Equity securities 43 14 Other invested assets(1) 3 9 Total $ 185 $ 46 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $65 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and finance sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2006 were concentrated in the manufacturing sector and were primarily driven by interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. 154 Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2007 were $589 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $481 million in 2006. Net realized gains on fixed maturity investments were $182 million in 2007 and $279 million in 2006, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Investments Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 467 $ 468 Private bond prepayment premiums 39 49 Total 506 517 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (262 ) (184 ) Other than temporary impairments (48 ) (31 ) Credit related losses (14 ) (23 ) Total (324 ) (238 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Investments $ 182 $ 279 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 205 $ 284 (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $205 million in 2007 were primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $262 million in 2007 included $11 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Gross gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $468 million in 2006 include a recovery of $29 million from a U.S. telecommunications company. Net realized gains on equity securities were $337 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on equity securities were $369 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $32 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $187 million in 2006, of which net trading gains on equity securities were $204 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $17 million. These gains were a result of sales pursuant to our active management strategy. Net realized gains on derivatives were $61 million in 2007, compared to net realized losses of $68 million in 2006. Derivative gains in 2007 primarily reflect the impact of interest derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio partially offset by net losses on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments. Derivative losses in 2006 primarily relate to currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments. Net realized gains on other investments were $9 million in 2007. Net realized gains on other investments were $83 million in 2006 primarily related to net gains from real estate related investments. 155 As set forth in the following table, during 2007 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $86 million attributable to the Closed Block Business, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $51 million attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Closed Block Business Public fixed maturity investments $ 29 $ 7 Private fixed maturity investments 19 24 Total fixed maturity securities 48 31 Equity securities 32 17 Other invested assets(1) 6 3 Total $ 86 $ 51 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $15 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. Other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Other than temporary impairments in 2006 were concentrated in the services and manufacturing sectors and were primarily driven by interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. General Account Investments We maintain a diversified investment portfolio in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our general account does not include: (1) assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and (2) assets of our asset management operations, including assets managed for third parties, and (3) those assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet. The general account portfolio is managed pursuant to the distinct objectives of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints; and for certain portfolios, maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of their major products. Our strategies for maximizing the portfolio book yield of the Financial Services Businesses include: (1) the investment of proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments, and operating cash flows, into optimally yielding investments, and (2) where appropriate, the sale of the portfolios lower yielding investments, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolios duration, credit, currency and other risk constraints, all while minimizing the amount of taxes on realized capital gains. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders; and maximizing total return and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business. 156 In light of recent market and economic conditions, while we continue to look to maximize book yield and match the liability characteristics of our major products, our portfolio management approach now reflects a greater consideration of the capital and tax implications of portfolio activity, as well as our assertion on our ability and intent to hold securities to recovery. In consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy previously employed in the Closed Block Business and certain portfolios of the Financial Services Businesses, and are currently evaluating our going forward trading strategies for these portfolios. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments, including our assertions on our ability and intent to hold securities to recovery, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities, below. Management of Investments We design asset mix strategies for our general account to match the characteristics of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations hinder our ability to closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocations within a disciplined risk management framework. For a discussion of our risk management process see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments, and Other Than Trading Activities Insurance and Annuity Products Asset/Liability Management. Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Asset Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those managed by our International Insurance segment, under the direction and oversight of the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally, in some cases using the international asset management capabilities of our International Investments segment. The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions quarterly. Our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups develop the investment policy for the general account assets of our insurance subsidiaries, oversee the investment process for our general account and have the authority to initiate tactical shifts within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. The Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups work closely with each of our business units to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into their processes and to develop investment objectives, including performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: interest crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance; participating individual and experience rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as GICs. We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest sensitive products successfully through several market cycles. Portfolio Composition Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. The composition of our general account reflects, within 157 the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our Asset Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. Our total general account investments were $230.351 billion and $232.494 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are segregated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Total general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $171.644 billion and $162.996 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, while total general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were $58.707 billion and $69.498 billion as of and December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our general account as of the dates indicated. The average duration of our general account investment portfolio attributable to the domestic Financial Services Businesses, including the impact of derivatives, as of December 31, 2008 is between 4 and 5 years. December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 98,725 $ 27,424 $ 126,149 54.8% Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,002 3,002 1.3 Private, available for sale, at fair value 18,568 11,479 30,047 13.0 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 806 806 0.4 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 13,875 13,875 6.0 Other trading account assets, at fair value 728 120 848 0.4 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 3,659 2,400 6,059 2.6 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 22,092 8,748 30,840 13.4 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 4,280 5,423 9,703 4.2 Other long term investments(1) 3,035 1,629 4,664 2.0 Short term investments(2) 2,874 1,484 4,358 1.9 Total general account investments 171,644 58,707 230,351 100.0% Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 11,674 11,674 Total investments $ 183,318 $ 58,707 $ 242,025 December 31, 2007 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 90,962 $ 37,168 $ 128,130 55.1% Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 2,879 2,879 1.2 Private, available for sale, at fair value 20,313 12,246 32,559 14.0 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 669 669 0.3 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 14,473 14,473 6.2 Other trading account assets, at fair value 204 142 346 0.2 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 4,629 3,940 8,569 3.7 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 19,603 7,954 27,557 11.9 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 3,942 5,395 9,337 4.0 Other long term investments(1) 2,724 1,268 3,992 1.7 Short term investments(2) 2,598 1,385 3,983 1.7 Total general account investments 162,996 69,498 232,494 100.0% Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 11,063 11,063 Total investments $ 174,059 $ 69,498 $ 243,557 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures (other than our investment in operating joint ventures, which includes our investment in Wachovia Securities) and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Short term investments consist primarily of money market funds with virtually no sub prime exposure. 158 (3) Includes invested assets of brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. The increase in general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2008 was primarily a result of net operating inflows, the reinvestment of net investment results and the impact of foreign currency, partially offset by net declines in market value, primarily attributable to credit spread widening. Net operating inflows include $10 billion of transfers of investments out of separate accounts and into our general account, primarily relating to an automatic rebalancing element embedded in the living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. As part of the overall product design, the automatic rebalancing element transferred investments out of the separate accounts, and into our general account, due to equity market declines. The decrease in general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2008 was primarily due to reductions in leverage and a net decrease in market value, partially offset by portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income. We have substantial insurance operations in Japan, with 35% and 31% of our Financial Services Businesses general account investments relating to our Japanese insurance operations as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations were $59.8 billion and $50.7 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average duration of our general account investment portfolio related to our Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, as of December 31, 2008 is approximately 11 years. The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2008 is primarily attributable to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, portfolio growth as a result of business growth and the reinvestment of net investment income, partially offset by net declines in market value. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our Japanese insurance operations general account as of the dates indicated. December 31,2008 December 31,2007 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 42,223 $ 34,752 Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,002 2,879 Private, available for sale, at fair value 2,803 3,467 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 806 668 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 1,077 1,132 Other trading account assets, at fair value 519 48 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 2,071 2,550 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 3,373 2,881 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 1,547 1,133 Other long term investments(1) 2,143 993 Short term investments 266 239 Total Japanese general account investments(2) $ 59,830 $ 50,742 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Excludes assets classified as Separate accounts assets on our balance sheet. Our Japanese insurance operations use the yen as their functional currency, as it is the currency in which they conduct the majority of their operations. Although the majority of the Japanese general account is invested in yen denominated investments, our Japanese insurance operations also hold significant investments denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2008, our Japanese insurance operations had $12.3 billion of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $1.1 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $6.0 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2007, our Japanese insurance operations had $10.2 billion of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $1.1 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $4.1 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. 159 Investment Results The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses), for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.90 % $ 5,702 6.40 % $ 2,664 5.29 % $ 8,366 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.34 749 5.34 749 Equity securities 5.00 223 3.17 101 4.24 324 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.01 1,241 6.60 541 6.18 1,782 Policy loans 5.24 208 6.42 336 5.91 544 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.82 304 10.67 101 3.17 405 Other investments 3.01 100 (2.92 ) (44 ) 1.15 56 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.93 8,527 6.05 3,699 5.22 12,226 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (295 ) (0.24 ) (278 ) (0.17 ) (573 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.78 % 8,232 5.81 % 3,421 5.05 % 11,653 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 230 230 Total investment income $ 8,462 $ 3,421 $ 11,883 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 5.10 % $ 5,700 6.59 % $ 3,047 5.53 % $ 8,747 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.12 716 5.12 716 Equity securities 4.95 198 2.91 93 4.04 291 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.17 1,081 7.00 504 6.41 1,585 Policy loans 5.23 188 6.35 333 5.90 521 Short term investments and cash equivalents 4.58 378 9.83 183 5.05 561 Other investments 4.80 136 17.83 176 8.19 312 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.20 8,397 6.64 4,336 5.60 12,733 Investment expenses (0.14 ) (521 ) (0.23 ) (547 ) (0.17 ) (1,068 ) Investment income after investment expenses 5.06 % 7,876 6.41 % 3,789 5.43 % 11,665 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 352 352 Total investment income $ 8,228 $ 3,789 $ 12,017 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for securities lending activity are calculated net of corresponding liabilities and rebate expenses. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets of the Financial Services Businesses. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. The net investment income yield on our general account investments after investment expenses, excluding realized investment gains (losses), was 5.05% and 5.43% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The net investment income yield attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 4.78% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 5.06% for the year ended December 31, 2007. See below for a discussion of the change in the Financial Services Businesses yields. The net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business was 5.81% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 6.41% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower income from investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships, driven by lower appreciation of the underlying assets. 160 The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses), for each major investment category of the Financial Services Business general account, excluding the Japanese operations portion of the general account which is presented separately below, for the periods indicated. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 6.06 % $ 4,348 6.47 % $ 4,642 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.61 726 5.42 697 Equity securities 7.73 150 7.51 139 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.22 1,097 6.49 959 Policy loans 5.87 158 5.76 148 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.89 283 4.68 346 Other investments 0.03 1 1.55 31 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.75 6,763 6.17 6,962 Investment expenses (0.13 ) (188 ) (0.13 ) (425 ) Investment income after investment expenses 5.62 % 6,575 6.04 % 6,537 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 230 352 Total investment income $ 6,805 $ 6,889 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for securities lending activity are calculated net of corresponding liabilities and rebate expenses. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets of the Financial Services Businesses. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. The net investment income yield attributable to the non Japanese operations portion of the Financial Services Businesses portfolio was 5.62% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 6.04% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in fixed maturity yields as a result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower income from short term investments as a result of lower short term rates partially offset by reinvestment of portfolio maturities at higher than book yields. The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses), for each major investment category of our Japanese operations general account for the periods indicated. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 3.04 % $ 1,354 2.72 % $ 1,058 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 2.10 23 1.67 19 Equity securities 2.90 73 2.74 59 Commercial mortgage and other loans 4.76 144 4.45 122 Policy loans 3.92 50 3.91 40 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.26 21 3.96 32 Other investments 6.14 99 11.95 105 Gross investment income before investment expenses 3.21 1,764 3.01 1,435 Investment expenses (0.19 ) (107 ) (0.18 ) (96 ) Total investment income 3.02 % $ 1,657 2.83 % $ 1,339 161 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for securities lending activity are calculated net of corresponding liabilities and rebate expenses. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets of the Financial Services Businesses. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. The net investment income yield attributable to the Japanese insurance operations portfolios was 3.02% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 2.83% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio is primarily attributable to various investment portfolio strategies, including an increase in unhedged U.S. dollar investments, the lengthening of the duration of the investment portfolio, and increased exposure to corporate securities. The U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable Japanese fixed maturities. The average value of U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $8.9 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, based on amortized cost. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations and our on going process to lengthen the duration of our Japanese yen investment portfolio see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Mix Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. The fixed maturity securities relating to our international insurance operations are primarily comprised of foreign government securities. We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups and, in the case of our international insurance portfolios, to a profile that also reflects the local market environment. The investment objectives for fixed maturity securities are consistent with those described above. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments. We use our private placement and asset backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has directly originated more than half of our annual private placement originations. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $127.7 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $121.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 compared to $113.5 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $114.8 billion as of December 31, 2007. Investments in fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $42.9 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $38.9 billion as of December 31, 2008 compared to $48.7 billion at amortized cost with an estimated fair value of $49.4 billion as of December 31, 2007. 162 Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2009 $ 4,190 3.3 % $ 1,802 4.2 % Maturing in 2010 4,213 3.3 1,623 3.8 Maturing in 2011 6,184 4.8 2,081 4.8 Maturing in 2012 6,202 4.9 1,942 4.5 Maturing in 2013 9,129 7.2 3,366 7.8 Maturing in 2014 7,074 5.5 2,132 5.0 Maturing in 2015 5,707 4.5 1,994 4.6 Maturing in 2016 5,153 4.0 1,228 2.9 Maturing in 2017 5,474 4.3 1,541 3.6 Maturing in 2018 and beyond 74,366 58.2 25,229 58.8 Total Fixed Maturities $ 127,692 100.0 % $ 42,938 100.0 % Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Industry(1) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 19,018 $ 435 $ 2,098 $ 17,355 $ 14,754 $ 523 $ 248 $ 15,029 Utilities 10,770 265 1,017 10,018 10,170 408 191 10,387 Finance 9,793 124 1,084 8,833 11,009 141 247 10,903 Services 8,930 102 1,409 7,623 8,238 237 191 8,284 Energy 4,592 75 579 4,088 4,009 157 69 4,097 Transportation 3,387 74 239 3,222 2,872 112 38 2,946 Retail and Wholesale 3,377 42 388 3,031 2,722 64 50 2,736 Other 1,000 26 117 909 742 11 20 733 Total Corporate Securities 60,867 1,143 6,931 55,079 54,516 1,653 1,054 55,115 Foreign Government(3) 32,986 2,338 62 35,262 27,606 904 98 28,412 Asset Backed Securities 10,863 90 2,467 8,486 13,833 123 747 13,209 Residential Mortgage Backed 10,688 336 114 10,910 7,782 104 46 7,840 Commercial Mortgage Backed 8,506 3 1,657 6,852 6,581 102 25 6,658 U.S. Government 3,185 750 12 3,923 2,585 379 2,964 State & Municipal(4) 597 24 8 613 583 37 620 Total(5)(6) $ 127,692 $ 4,684 $ 11,251 $ 121,125 $ 113,486 $ 3,302 $ 1,970 $ 114,818 163 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes $157 million of gross unrealized gains and $133 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008, compared to $36 million of gross unrealized gains and $41 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 on securities classified as held to maturity, which are not reflected in other comprehensive income. (3) As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 87% represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance operations. No other individual country represents more than 5% of the balance. (4) State and municipal securities were previously presented within U.S. Government. (5) Excluded from the above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. (6) The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for additional information. As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31 2008, consist primarily of 26% foreign government securities, 15% manufacturing sector, 9% asset backed securities and 8% public utility sector, compared to 24% foreign government securities, 13% manufacturing sector, 12% asset backed securities and 10% finance sector as of December 31, 2007. On an amortized cost basis, of the $60.867 billion of corporate securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31 2008, $29.537 billion are designated category 1 by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, $23.777 billion are designated category 2, $4.685 billion are designated category 3, $2.257 billion are designated category 4, $433 million are designated category 5 and $178 million are designated category 6. On an amortized cost basis, of the $54,516 million of corporate securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31 2007, $25.305 billion are designated category 1 by the NAIC, $22.364 billion are designated category 2, $4.015 billion are designated category 3, $2.351 billion are designated category 4, $420 million are designated category 5 and $61 million are designated category 6. For additional information regarding NAIC designations and the overall credit quality of our fixed maturity securities see Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses increased from $1.970 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $11.251 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to credit spread widening and an increase in the liquidity premium demanded in the marketplace. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 were concentrated primarily in asset backed and commercial mortgage backed securities and the manufacturing and service sectors of our corporate securities. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 were concentrated primarily in asset backed securities and the manufacturing and finance sectors of our corporate securities. The gross unrealized gains related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses increased from $3.302 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $4.684 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to declines in the risk free rate and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 164 The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Industry(1) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 8,791 $ 188 $ 905 $ 8,074 $ 8,455 $ 346 $ 91 $ 8,710 Utilities 5,608 126 526 5,208 5,338 280 73 5,545 Services 4,467 69 590 3,946 4,566 184 77 4,673 Finance 2,455 32 232 2,255 3,997 53 71 3,979 Energy 1,963 16 229 1,750 2,103 99 13 2,189 Retail and Wholesale 1,716 32 149 1,599 1,631 59 19 1,671 Transportation 1,413 23 163 1,273 1,274 65 21 1,318 Total Corporate Securities 26,413 486 2,794 24,105 27,364 1,086 365 28,085 Asset Backed Securities 5,737 44 1,690 4,091 8,091 14 478 7,627 Commercial Mortgage Backed 3,858 2 672 3,188 4,265 46 21 4,290 Residential Mortgage Backed 3,110 100 109 3,101 5,163 61 18 5,206 U.S. Government 2,998 603 1 3,600 3,184 291 1 3,474 State & Municipal(2) 240 5 4 241 169 18 187 Foreign Government(3) 582 44 49 577 496 53 4 545 Total $ 42,938 $ 1,284 $ 5,319 $ 38,903 $ 48,732 $ 1,569 $ 887 $ 49,414 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) State and municipal securities were previously presented within U.S. Government. (3) As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, no individual country represents more than 20% of the balance. As a percentage of amortized cost, fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 consist primarily of 20% manufacturing sector, 13% asset backed securities, 13% utilities sector, 10% services sector, 9% commercial mortgage backed securities and 7% residential mortgage backed securities compared to 17% asset backed securities, 17% manufacturing sector, 11% utilities sector, 11% residential mortgage backed securities, 9% services sector, and 9% commercial mortgage backed securities, as of December 31, 2007. On an amortized cost basis, of the $26.413 billion of corporate securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31 2008, $9.382 billion are designated category 1 by the NAIC, $11.379 billion are designated category 2, $3.344 billion are designated category 3, $1.721 billion are designated category 4, $335 million are designated category 5 and $252 million are designated category 6. On an amortized cost basis, of the $27.364 billion of corporate securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31 2007, $10.243 billion are designated category 1 by the NAIC, $11.741 billion are designated category 2, $3.011 billion are designated category 3, $1.963 billion are designated category 4, $341 million are designated category 5 and $65 million are designated category 6. For additional information regarding NAIC designations and the overall credit quality of our fixed maturity securities see Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality. The gross unrealized losses related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business increased from $887 million as of December 31, 2007 to $5.319 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to credit spread widening and increased liquidity premium demanded in the marketplace. The gross unrealized 165 losses as of December 31, 2008 were concentrated primarily in asset backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and the manufacturing, services, and utility sectors of our corporate securities. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 were concentrated primarily in asset backed securities and the manufacturing, services, and utility sectors of our corporate securities. The gross unrealized gains related to our fixed maturity portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business decreased from $1.569 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $1.284 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to credit spread widening and increased liquidity premium demanded in the marketplace, partially offset by declines in the risk free rate. Asset Backed Securities As of December 31, 2008, included within asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses on an amortized cost basis is approximately $5.356 billion ($3.584 billion fair value) of securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. While there is no market standard definition, we define sub prime mortgages as residential mortgages that are originated to weaker quality obligors as indicated by weaker credit scores, as well as mortgages with higher loan to value ratios, or limited documentation. The significant deterioration of the U.S. housing market, high interest rate resets, and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub prime mortgages have recently led to higher delinquency rates, particularly for those mortgages issued in 2006 and 2007. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost ( $ in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 148 30 74 129 167 548 737 2006 678 214 116 326 204 1,538 2,622 2005 21 9 5 35 142 2004 2003 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 847 244 190 464 376 2,121 3,501 All other portfolios 2008 2007 5 10 27 61 165 268 420 2006 222 170 70 375 428 1,265 1,811 2005 16 253 80 122 94 565 677 2004 40 356 224 49 4 673 763 2003 & Prior 27 172 125 91 49 464 640 Total all other portfolios 310 961 526 698 740 3,235 4,311 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2)(3) 1,157 1,205 716 1,162 1,116 5,356 7,812 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market(4) 260 655 19 934 1,841 Collateralized by auto loans 1,248 108 5 129 2 1,492 1,187 Collateralized by credit cards 72 2 686 760 907 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 940 48 8 37 18 1,051 771 Other asset backed securities(5) 642 128 96 242 162 1,270 1,315 Total asset backed securities(6) $ 4,059 $ 1,489 $ 1,087 $ 2,911 $ 1,317 $ 10,863 $ 13,833 166 Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 122 25 55 85 118 405 692 2006 613 178 92 247 154 1,284 2,532 2005 19 7 5 31 140 2004 2003 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 754 203 147 339 277 1,720 3,364 All other portfolios 2008 2007 3 7 12 41 95 158 341 2006 159 103 38 188 221 709 1,539 2005 15 152 41 77 39 324 604 2004 26 201 123 30 1 381 711 2003 & Prior 18 103 77 59 35 292 576 Total all other portfolios 221 566 291 395 391 1,864 3,771 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(3) 975 769 438 734 668 3,584 7,135 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market(4) 251 673 17 941 1,898 Collateralized by auto loans 1,211 100 5 103 2 1,421 1,188 Collateralized by credit cards 69 2 383 454 874 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 965 48 9 35 16 1,073 778 Other asset backed securities(5) 543 106 72 175 117 1,013 1,336 Total asset backed securities(6) $ 3,763 $ 1,023 $ 777 $ 2,103 $ 820 $ 8,486 $ 13,209 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, commercial paper issuances and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $5.4 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2008 are $0.8 billion of securities supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, of which $0.6 billion are collateralized by second lien exposures. See Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers for additional information regarding guarantees from monoline bond insurers. (3) In Exhibit 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8 K we filed on February 4, 2009 the amortized cost and fair value of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages was stated to be $1,208 million and $772 million, respectively, for securities with AA credit ratings, $1,255 million and $816 million for securities with BBB ratings, and $1,116 million and $583 million for securities with BB and below credit ratings. The amounts in the table above include corrections to these amounts to reflect the appropriate amounts within the BB and below rating category. (4) As of December 31, 2008, includes the $(625) million impact of the bifurcated embedded derivative described below. (5) As of December 31, 2008, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $495 million and fair value of $329 million, with less than 1% secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, timeshares, aircraft, and franchises. (6) Excluded from the table above are asset backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding asset backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are asset backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for information regarding $0.9 billion of such securities as of December 31, 2008. An additional $371 million of asset backed securities held within the general account as of December 31, 2008 are classified as other trading, 77% of which have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 23% virtually all have BBB credit ratings. The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2008, and reflect credit rating downgrades on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages processed by the rating agencies in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 22% 167 of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses had AAA credit ratings, 22% had AA credit ratings, 13% had A credit ratings, 22% had BBB credit ratings, and the remaining 21% had below investment grade credit ratings, compared to 71% with AAA credit ratings, 19% with AA credit ratings, 9% with A credit ratings, 1% with BBB credit ratings, and less than 1% with below investment grade credit ratings, as of December 31, 2007. In making our investment decisions, rather than relying solely on the rating agencies evaluations, we assign internal ratings to our asset backed securities based upon our dedicated asset backed securities units independent evaluation of the underlying collateral and securitization structure, including any guarantees from monoline bond insurers. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses decreased from $7.812 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $5.356 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $1.781 billion as of December 31, 2008 and $682 million as of December 31, 2007, respectively. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 34% as of December 31, 2008. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 87% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 50% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $5.356 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 were $1.718 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. The $934 million of externally managed investments in the European market, included above in asset backed securities of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008, reflects our investment in medium term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of European fixed income securities, including 45% European corporate and bank bonds, 21% bank capital, 14% European asset backed securities, and 20% other, as well as derivatives and varying degrees of leverage. Our investment in these notes further diversifies our credit risk. As of December 31, 2008 none of the underlying investments are securities collateralized by U.S. sub prime mortgages, and 89% of the underlying investments are rated investment grade. The notes have a stated coupon and provide a return based on the return of the underlying portfolios and the level of leverage. The notes are accounted for as available for sale fixed maturity securities with bifurcated embedded derivatives (total return swaps). Changes in the value of the fixed maturity securities are reported in Stockholders Equity under the heading Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Changes in the market value of the embedded total return swaps are included in current period earnings in Realized investment gains (losses), net. As discussed further in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, any changes in market value of the embedded total return swaps are excluded from adjusted operating income. The fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with these investments declined in 2008 due to increased credit spreads in the applicable financial markets, and as of December 31, 2008 was in a $625 million loss position on a cumulative basis as a result of the recent stress in the credit markets. However, we believe the investment fundamentals remain sound, and the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than reflected by the current fair value of the embedded derivatives. During the second quarter of 2008, we restructured certain of these investments, which included an additional investment of approximately $500 million to fund our share of leverage in certain of the existing portfolios. In addition to the decline in the fair value of the 168 embedded derivative, the decrease in externally managed investments in the European market from December 31, 2007 is primarily a result of this restructuring. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, the underlying restructured portfolio of investments and derivatives, totaling approximately $680 million, is held directly on our balance sheet primarily within Other trading account assets, at fair value. The difference between the market value of the investments at the time of the restructuring and the par amount, previously recognized primarily in Realized investment gains (losses), net due to changes in the market value of the embedded total return swap, will be recognized, primarily in net investment income, and included in adjusted operating income over the remaining life of the investments, due to our investment in higher yielding restructured assets. As of December 31, 2008, included within asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business on an amortized cost basis is approximately $4.438 billion ($3.034 billion fair value) of securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See above for a description of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost ($ in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 146 31 76 133 386 768 2006 694 221 120 311 8 1,354 2,735 2005 22 9 31 148 2004 2003 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 862 252 196 453 8 1,771 3,651 All other portfolios 2008 2007 24 7 19 268 318 211 2006 190 41 109 199 577 1,116 1,074 2005 24 310 25 55 28 442 456 2004 9 297 36 2 344 370 2003 & Prior 36 220 75 79 37 447 568 Total all other portfolios 283 875 245 354 910 2,667 2,679 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2)(3) 1,145 1,127 441 807 918 4,438 6,330 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 9 444 453 544 Collateralized by auto loans 229 4 37 270 387 Externally managed investments in the European market(4) 74 74 148 281 Collateralized by education loans 165 20 7 192 215 Other asset backed securities(5) 110 21 22 54 29 236 334 Total asset backed securities $ 1,658 $ 1,172 $ 537 $ 1,416 $ 954 $ 5,737 $ 8,091 169 Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 119 26 57 88 290 721 2006 628 183 94 233 5 1,143 2,640 2005 20 7 27 147 2004 2003 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 767 209 151 328 5 1,460 3,508 All other portfolios 2008 2007 15 4 12 175 206 175 2006 110 19 61 109 324 623 926 2005 19 197 12 24 15 267 412 2004 6 166 25 2 199 344 2003 & Prior 25 129 49 51 25 279 518 Total all other portfolios 175 515 147 198 539 1,574 2,375 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(3) 942 724 298 526 544 3,034 5,883 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 9 233 242 522 Collateralized by auto loans 224 2 28 254 386 Externally managed investments in the European market(4) 92 94 186 283 Collateralized by education loans 159 13 6 178 215 Other asset backed securities(5) 92 20 19 42 24 197 338 Total asset backed securities(6) $ 1,426 $ 759 $ 409 $ 923 $ 574 $ 4,091 $ 7,627 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $4.4 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2008 are $0.5 billion of securities supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, of which $0.4 billion are collateralized by second lien exposures. See Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers for additional information regarding guarantees from monoline bond insurers. (3) In Exhibit 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8 K we filed on February 4, 2009 the amortized cost and fair value of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages was stated to be $1,131 million and $724 million, respectively, for securities with AA credit ratings, $867 million and $577 million for securities with BBB ratings, and $854 million and $489 million for securities with BB and below credit ratings. The amounts in the table above include corrections to these amounts to reflect the appropriate amounts within the BB and below rating category. (4) As of December 31, 2008, includes the $(133) million impact of the embedded derivative described below. (5) As of December 31, 2008 includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $56 million and fair value of $48 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by equipment leases, timeshares, aircraft and franchises. (6) Excluded from the table above are $25 million of asset backed securities classified as other trading and carried at fair value, all of which have BBB credit ratings or above as of December 31, 2008. The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2008, and reflect credit rating downgrades on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages processed by the rating agencies in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 26% of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business had AAA credit ratings, 25% had AA credit ratings, 10% had A credit ratings, 18% had BBB credit ratings, and 21% had below investment grade credit ratings, compared to 79% with AAA credit ratings, 18% with AA credit 170 ratings, 3% with A credit ratings, and less than 1% with BBB or below investment grade credit ratings, as of December 31, 2007. In making our investment decisions, rather than relying solely on the rating agencies evaluations, we assign internal ratings to our asset backed securities based upon our dedicated asset backed securities units independent evaluation of the underlying collateral and securitization structure, including any guarantees from monoline bond insurers. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business decreased from $6.330 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $4.438 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business were $1.405 billion as of December 31, 2008 and $447 million as of December 31, 2007, respectively. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 35% as of December 31, 2008. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 93% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 57% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.438 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 were $1.703 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. The $148 million of externally managed investments in the European market, included in asset backed securities of the Closed Block Business, reflects our investment in medium term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of European fixed income securities, including 45% European corporate and bank bonds, 21% bank capital, 14% European asset backed securities, and 20% other, as well as derivatives and varying degrees of leverage. Our investment in these notes further diversifies our credit risk. As of December 31, 2008 none of the underlying investments are securities collateralized by U.S. sub prime mortgages, and 89% of the underlying investments are rated investment grade. The notes have a stated coupon and provide a return based on the return of the underlying portfolios and the level of leverage. The notes are accounted for as available for sale fixed maturity securities with bifurcated embedded derivatives (total return swaps). Changes in the value of the fixed maturity securities are reported in Stockholders Equity under the heading Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Changes in the market value of the embedded total return swaps are included in current period earnings in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with these investments declined in 2008 due to increased credit spreads in the applicable financial markets, and as of December 31, 2008 was in a $133 million loss position on a cumulative basis as a result of the recent stress in the credit markets. However, we believe the investment fundamentals remain sound, and the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than reflected by the current fair value of the embedded derivatives. Residential Mortgage Backed Securities As of December 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $10.496 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities in the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Of these pass through securities, $9.166 billion are supported by the U.S. government, and $1.330 billion are supported by foreign governments. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $49 million secured by 171 ALT A mortgages, represented the remaining $192 million of residential mortgage backed securities (and less than 1% of total fixed maturities in the Financial Services Businesses), and 92% have credit ratings of A or above, while the remaining 8% have credit ratings of BB or higher. As of December 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $2.567 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities in the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit U.S. government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $146 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represented the remaining $543 million of residential mortgage backed securities (and 1% of total fixed maturities in the Closed Block Business), and 95% have AAA credit ratings, 1% have A credit ratings and the remaining 4% have BBB credit ratings. For additional information regarding our exposure to Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, see Government Sponsored Entities. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, along with a decrease in the overall liquidity and availability of capital have led to a very difficult refinancing environment and an increase in the overall delinquency rate on commercial mortgages in the commercial mortgage backed securities market. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the overall economic downturn continue to put additional pressure on these fundamentals through rising vacancies, falling rents and falling property values. In addition, we have recognized several market factors related to commercial mortgage backed securities issued in 2006 and 2007, including less stringent underwriting, higher levels of leverage and collateral valuations that are generally no longer realizable. To ensure our investment objectives and asset strategies are maintained, we consider these market factors in making our investment decisions on securities in these vintages. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost ($ in millions) 2008 $ 181 $ 4 $ 31 $ 101 $ 24 $ 341 $ 2007 1,689 3 72 78 1,842 713 2006 3,367 6 7 9 3,389 2,546 2005 1,541 12 32 1,585 1,509 2004 432 4 436 423 2003 & Prior 794 73 31 15 913 1,390 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(1)(2) $ 8,004 $ 83 $ 65 $ 207 $ 147 $ 8,506 $ 6,581 172 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) 2008 $ 135 $ 4 $ 31 $ 99 $ 24 $ 293 $ 2007 1,263 3 69 58 1,393 727 2006 2,677 3 7 8 2,695 2,588 2005 1,246 12 30 1,288 1,517 2004 356 3 359 421 2003 & Prior 736 56 23 9 824 1,405 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(1) $ 6,413 $ 63 $ 57 $ 196 $ 123 $ 6,852 $ 6,658 (1) Excluded from the table above are available for sale commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for information regarding $2.3 billion of such securities as of December 31, 2008. (2) Included in the table above are Non U.S. commercial mortgage backed securities of $11 million in AAA, $4 million in AA, $34 million in A, $192 million in BBB and $142 million in BB and below. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 33% as of December 31, 2008. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage includes an adjustment for that portion of the capital structure, which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 93% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 77% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities, of our U.S. and Non U.S. commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2008, by rating and vintage. U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2008 32 % % % % % 2007 30 2006 31 30 2005 28 2004 22 2003 & Prior 45 24 25 17 173 Non U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2008 % 25 % 7 % 5 % 5 % 2007 11 5 1 2006 8 1 2005 13 7 2004 2003 & Prior The super senior structure was introduced to the U.S. commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and was modified in early 2005 to increase subordination from 20% to 30%. With the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities structure in 2005, there became three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. The super senior class has priority over the mezzanine and junior classes to all principal cashflows (repayments, prepayments and recoveries on defaulted loans). As a result, all super senior bonds must be completely repaid before the mezzanine or junior bonds receive any principal cashflows. In addition, the super senior bonds will not experience any loss of principal until both the entire mezzanine and junior bonds are written down to zero. We believe the importance of this additional credit enhancement afforded to the super senior class over the mezzanine and junior classes is limited in a benign commercial real estate cycle with low defaults but becomes more significant in a deep commercial real estate downturn under which expected losses increase substantially. In addition to enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The super senior class is generally structured such that shorter duration time tranches have priority over longer duration time tranches as to all principal cashflows (repayments, prepayments, and recoveries on defaulted loans) until the deal reaches 30% cumulative net loss, at which point all super senior securities are paid pro rata. As a result, short of reaching 30% cumulative net losses, the shorter duration super senior tranches must be completely repaid before the longest duration super senior tranche receives any principal cashflows. We have generally focused our purchases of recent vintage commercial mortgage backed securities on shorter duration super senior tranches that we believe have sufficient priority to ensure that in most scenarios our positions will be fully repaid prior to the structure reaching the 30% cumulative net loss threshold. The following table sets forth the amortized cost of our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA Structures Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost Vintage SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranche) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other (in millions) 2008 $ 181 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 181 2007 1,599 90 1,689 2006 2,003 1,353 11 3,367 2005 748 767 26 1,541 2004 63 197 170 2 432 2003 & Prior 459 316 19 794 Total $ 4,594 $ 2,407 $ $ $ 629 $ 316 $ 58 $ 8,004 174 Loan to value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage backed securities. The loan to value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan to value ratios greater than 100% percent indicate that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. Therefore, all else being equal, a smaller loan to value ratio generally indicates a higher quality security. The debt service coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover its current debt payments. Therefore, all else being equal, a larger debt service coverage ratio generally indicates a higher quality security. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 69% and 1.54 times, respectively. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 by loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Loan to Value Ratio Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) 0% 50% $ 70 $ 55 50% 60% 451 390 60% 70% 3,781 3,069 70% 80% 4,129 3,280 80% 90% 55 38 90% 100% 20 20 Greater than 100% Total (1) $ 8,506 $ 6,852 (1) The majority of the collateral values used in the calculation of the loan to value ratios are based upon the appraised value of the property at the time of loan origination. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Debt Service Coverage Ratio Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Greater than 2.0 times $ 338 $ 303 1.8 times 2.0 times 823 675 1.5 times 1.8 times 3,179 2,579 1.2 times 1.5 times 3,815 3,018 1.0 times 1.2 times 351 277 Less than 1.0 times Total (1) $ 8,506 $ 6,852 (1) The property level net operating income used in the calculation of the debt service coverage ratios is generally updated quarterly based on property operating statements. The debt service coverage ratios are aggregated by security, and are based on current debt payments, which do not reflect future contractual principal payments for loans which are currently only required to pay interest. 175 The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost TotalDecember 31,2007 ($ in millions) 2008 $ 10 $ $ $ $ $ 10 $ 2007 425 12 437 277 2006 882 882 1,207 2005 1,282 1,282 1,375 2004 394 394 397 2003 & Prior 772 37 43 1 853 1,009 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 3,765 $ 37 $ 55 $ 1 $ $ 3,858 $ 4,265 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalFairValue TotalDecember 31,2007 (in millions) 2008 $ 9 $ $ $ $ $ 9 $ 2007 322 4 326 279 2006 689 689 1,221 2005 1,051 1,051 1,375 2004 331 331 392 2003 & Prior 724 27 31 782 1,023 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 3,126 $ 27 $ 35 $ $ $ 3,188 $ 4,290 The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business was 32% as of December 31, 2008. See above for a definition of this percentage. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, approximately 93% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 60% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by US Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2008, by rating and vintage. 176 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2008 28 % % % % % 2007 30 53 2006 29 2005 28 2004 20 2003 & Prior 40 19 23 9 As discussed above, with the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and early 2005, there are now three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. In addition to the enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The following table sets forth the amortized cost our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2008 Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA Structures SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranche) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other (in millions) 2008 $ 10 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 10 2007 425 425 2006 690 160 32 882 2005 1,054 227 1 1,282 2004 48 14 325 7 394 2003 & Prior 652 117 3 772 Total $ 2,227 $ 401 $ $ $ 977 $ 117 $ 43 $ 3,765 Loan to value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage backed securities. See above for a description of these ratios. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business is 69% and 1.57 times, respectively. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 by loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. 177 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Loan to Value Ratio Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost Fair Value (in millions) 0% 50% $ $ 50% 60% 214 167 60% 70% 1,728 1,435 70% 80% 1,911 1,581 80% 90% 5 5 90% 100% Greater than 100% Total(1) $ 3,858 $ 3,188 (1) The majority of the collateral values used in the calculation of the loan to value ratios are based upon the appraised value of the property at the time of loan origination. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Debt Service Coverage Ratio Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost Fair Value (in millions) Greater than 2.0 times $ 23 $ 18 1.8 times 2.0 times 340 284 1.5 times 1.8 times 2,221 1,817 1.2 times 1.5 times 1,237 1,041 1.0 times 1.2 times 37 28 Less than 1.0 times Total(1) $ 3,858 $ 3,188 (1) The property level net operating income used in the calculation of the debt service coverage ratios is generally updated quarterly based on property operating statements. The debt service coverage ratios are aggregated by security, and are based on current debt payments, which do not reflect future contractual principal payments for loans which are currently only required to pay interest. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office, or SVO, of the NAIC, evaluates the investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. NAIC designations of 1 or 2 include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys or BBB or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys and BB+ or lower by Standard & Poors. As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese insurance operations are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the Financial Services Agencys credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the non U.S. dollar denominated investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by Moodys, Standard & Poors, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies. The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses totaled $9.0 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2008 and $7.5 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2007. Below investment grade fixed maturities represented 19% and 12% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. 178 The amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business totaled $6.6 billion, or 15%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2008 and $5.7 billion, or 12%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2007. Below investment grade fixed maturities represented 29% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008, compared to 18% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007. Public Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) (2) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 85,474 $ 4,228 $ 4,425 $ 85,277 $ 74,678 $ 2,036 $ 1,184 $ 75,530 2 Baa 15,573 163 2,893 12,843 13,573 490 351 13,712 Subtotal Investment Grade 101,047 4,391 7,318 98,120 88,251 2,526 1,535 89,242 3 Ba 3,009 16 800 2,225 2,830 68 102 2,796 4 B 1,639 2 565 1,076 1,681 38 82 1,637 5 C and lower 379 14 123 270 115 5 6 114 6 In or near default 36 4 4 36 34 5 1 38 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 5,063 36 1,492 3,607 4,660 116 191 4,585 Total Public Fixed Maturities $106,110 $ 4,427 $ 8,810 $ 101,727 $ 92,911 $ 2,642 $ 1,726 $ 93,827 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, 13 securities with amortized cost of $3 million (fair value, $2 million) and 14 securities with amortized cost of $49 million (fair value, $46 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $132 million of gross unrealized gains and $132 million gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008, compared to $25 million of gross unrealized gains and $39 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 on securities classified as held to maturity that are not reflected in other comprehensive income. 179 The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 20,231 $ 977 $ 2,040 $ 19,168 $ 27,437 $ 618 $ 578 $ 27,477 2 Baa 6,555 59 1,169 5,445 5,915 199 101 6,013 Subtotal Investment Grade 26,786 1,036 3,209 24,613 33,352 817 679 33,490 3 Ba 2,209 8 538 1,679 1,992 46 61 1,977 4 B 1,324 2 453 873 1,588 23 58 1,553 5 C and lower 349 6 111 244 131 5 8 128 6 In or near default 15 1 1 15 19 1 20 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,897 17 1,103 2,811 3,730 75 127 3,678 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 30,683 $ 1,053 $ 4,312 $ 27,424 $ 37,082 $ 892 $ 806 $ 37,168 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, 18 securities with amortized cost of $30 million (fair value, $20 million) and 14 securities with amortized cost of $45 million (fair value, $47 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) (2) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 6,284 $ 112 $ 408 $ 5,988 $ 7,139 $ 230 $ 84 $ 7,285 2 Baa 11,341 92 1,310 10,123 10,595 344 118 10,821 Subtotal Investment Grade 17,625 204 1,718 16,111 17,734 574 202 18,106 3 Ba 2,405 24 381 2,048 1,637 49 26 1,660 4 B 1,037 14 244 807 738 6 12 732 5 C and lower 283 7 59 231 319 8 4 323 6 In or near default 232 8 39 201 147 23 170 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 3,957 53 723 3,287 2,841 86 42 2,885 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 21,582 $ 257 $ 2,441 $ 19,398 $ 20,575 $ 660 $ 244 $ 20,991 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. 180 (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, 129 securities with amortized cost of $1,211 million (fair value, $1,052 million) and 182 securities with amortized cost of $2,257 million (fair value, $2,273 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $25 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008, compared to $11 million of gross unrealized gains and $2 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 on securities classified as held to maturity that are not reflected in other comprehensive income. The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC rating attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 3,379 $ 116 $ 115 $ 3,380 $ 3,197 $ 219 $ 23 $ 3,393 2 Baa 6,175 86 460 5,801 6,495 363 28 6,830 Subtotal Investment Grade 9,554 202 575 9,181 9,692 582 51 10,223 3 Ba 1,651 15 241 1,425 1,246 63 21 1,288 4 B 652 9 141 520 442 6 5 443 5 C and lower 158 3 39 122 214 8 4 218 6 In or near default 240 2 11 231 56 18 74 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 2,701 29 432 2,298 1,958 95 30 2,023 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 12,255 $ 231 $ 1,007 $ 11,479 $ 11,650 $ 677 $ 81 $ 12,246 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, 87 securities with amortized cost of $1,908 million (fair value, $1,797 million) and 106 securities with amortized cost of $1,578 million (fair value, $1,582 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers Certain of our fixed maturity investments are supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and fair value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers as of the dates indicated. Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Asset backed securities: Collateralized by sub prime mortgages $ 812 $ 568 $ 471 378 Other 285 239 87 75 Total asset backed securities 1,097 807 558 453 Municipal bonds 409 412 127 129 Commercial mortgage backed securities Total $ 1,506 $ 1,219 $ 685 $ 582 181 December 31, 2007 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Asset backed securities: Collateralized by sub prime mortgages $ 1,623 $ 1,490 $ 1,060 $ 1,024 Other 607 622 184 186 Total asset backed securities 2,230 2,112 1,244 1,210 Municipal bonds 421 447 119 132 Commercial mortgage backed securities 5 5 5 5 Total $ 2,656 $ 2,564 $ 1,368 $ 1,347 As of December 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $1.506 billion, or 1%, of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2008, 35% of these investments had A credit ratings or higher, reflecting the credit quality of the monoline bond insurers. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 62% of the $1.506 billion total attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings, including 40% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, 72% of the other asset backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds. As of December 31, 2008, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 35% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Financial Services Businesses. For additional information regarding credit derivatives we have purchased in order to hedge our exposure relating to certain of these guarantees from monoline bond insurers, see Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities. As of December 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $685 million, or 2%, of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2008, 30% of these investments had A credit ratings or higher, reflecting the credit quality of the monoline bond insurers. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 75% of the $685 million total attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings, including 65% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, 90% of the other asset backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds. As of December 31, 2008, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 35% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business. Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities In addition to the credit exposure from public fixed maturities noted above, we sell credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced names public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first to default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. Subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties. 182 The majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $1.222 billion and $1.470 billion, respectively, in outstanding notional amounts of credit derivative contracts where we have sold credit protection. The Financial Services Businesses had $1.161 billion and $1.142 billion of outstanding notional amounts as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The Closed Block Business had $61 million and $328 million of outstanding notional amounts, as December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Credit derivative contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value, including the premium received, recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The premium received for the credit derivatives we sell attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. The following table sets forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Financial Services Businesses by NAIC rating of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2008 Single Name First to Default Basket (1) Total Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 320 $ (9 ) $ 207 $ (19 ) $ 527 $ (28 ) 2 Baa 517 (84 ) 517 (84 ) Subtotal Investment Grade 320 (9 ) 724 (103 ) 1,044 (112 ) 3 Ba 15 (2 ) 15 (2 ) 4 B 5 C and lower 102 (32 ) 102 (32 ) 6 In or near default Subtotal Below Investment Grade 117 (34 ) 117 (34 ) Total $ 320 $ (9 ) $ 841 $ (137 ) $ 1,161 $ (146 ) Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2007 Single Name First to Default Basket (1) Total Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ $ $ 392 $ (4 ) $ 392 $ (4 ) 2 Baa 672 (65 ) 672 (65 ) Subtotal Investment Grade 1,064 (69 ) 1,064 (69 ) 3 Ba 20 (1 ) 20 (1 ) 4 B 38 (3 ) 38 (3 5 C and lower 20 (2 ) 20 (2 ) 6 In or near default Subtotal Below Investment Grade 78 (6 ) 78 (6 ) Total $ $ $ 1,142 $ (75 ) $ 1,142 $ (75 ) (1) First to default credit swap baskets, which may include credits of varying qualities, are grouped above based on the lowest credit in the basket. However, such basket swaps may entail greater credit risk than the rating level of the lowest credit. 183 The following table sets forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Closed Block Business portfolios by NAIC rating of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Closed Block Business NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2008 Single Name First to Default Basket (1) Total Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 20 $ (1 ) $ 6 $ $ 26 $ (1 ) 2 Baa 5 25 (1 ) 30 (1 ) Subtotal Investment Grade 25 (1 ) 31 (1 ) 56 (2 ) 3 Ba 4 B 5 C and lower 5 5 6 In or near default Subtotal Below Investment Grade 5 5 Total $ 30 $ (1 ) $ 31 $ (1 ) $ 61 $ (2 ) Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Closed Block Business NAICDesignation Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2007 Single Name First to Default Basket (1) Total Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 40 $ $ 213 $ (1 ) $ 253 $ (1 ) 2 Baa 15 55 70 Subtotal Investment Grade 55 268 (1 ) 323 (1 ) 3 Ba 4 B 5 C and lower 5 (1 ) 5 (1 ) 6 In or near default Subtotal Below Investment Grade 5 (1 ) 5 (1 ) Total $ 60 $ (1 ) $ 268 $ (1 ) $ 328 $ (2 ) (1) First to default credit swap baskets, which may include credits of varying qualities, are grouped above based on the lowest credit in the basket. However, such basket swaps may entail greater credit risk than the rating level of the lowest credit. In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. For additional information relating to our exposure to guarantees from monoline bond insurers see, Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.069 billion and $214 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a $189 million asset and a $1 million asset, respectively. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Closed Block Business had $309 million and $205 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $64 million and $5 million, respectively. The premium paid for the credit derivatives we purchase attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding credit derivatives and an overall description of our derivative activities. 184 Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 15% or more, but less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 15% but Less than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 3,543 $ 620 $ 619 $ 105 Three months or greater but less than six months 4,592 809 76 13 Six months or greater but less than nine months 135 23 9 2 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 73 13 Greater than twelve months 9 2 10 2 Total $ 8,352 $ 1,467 $ 714 $ 122 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 15% or more, but less than 20% using month end valuations. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 9,612 $ 2,605 $ 769 $ 213 Three months or greater but less than six months 13,481 4,623 265 91 Six months or greater but less than nine months 1,082 488 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 272 159 Greater than twelve months Total(2) $ 24,447 $ 7,875 $ 1,034 $ 304 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. (2) As of December 31, 2008 includes $1.623 billion of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of $2.652 billion where the estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more. As of December 31, 2007 includes less than one million of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of less than one million where the estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more. The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $7.875 billion as of December 31, 2008 includes $1.605 billion relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2008 also includes $1.623 billion of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of $2.652 billion where the 185 estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more, of which $134 million was included in the less than three month timeframe, $1.144 billion was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, $222 million was included in the six months or greater but less than nine months timeframe, and $123 million was included in the nine months or greater but less than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments, as each security is current on its contractual payments, and our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cashflows on each of these securities resulted in the determination that there is no evidence of probable credit deterioration that would indicate they would be unable to meet their contractual obligations. The declines in fair value were primarily due to credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and increased liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our amortized cost, and we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 15% or more, but less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 15% but Less than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 1,243 $ 212 $ 278 $ 46 Three months or greater but less than six months 2,574 457 34 6 Six months or greater but less than nine months 57 10 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 82 15 Greater than twelve months 16 3 Total $ 3,972 $ 697 $ 312 $ 52 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 15% or more, but less than 20%, using month end valuations. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 3,377 $ 928 $ 369 $ 88 Three months or greater but less than six months 6,159 2,338 99 31 Six months or greater but less than nine months 662 325 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 25 21 Greater than twelve months Total(2) $ 10,223 $ 3,612 $ 468 $ 119 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. 186 (2) As of December 31, 2008 includes $926 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of $1.498 billion where the estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more. As of December 31, 2007 includes less than one million of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of less than one million where the estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more. The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $3.612 billion as of December 31, 2008 includes $1.239 billion relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2008 also includes $926 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with an amortized cost of $1.498 billion where the estimated fair value had declined below amortized cost by 50% or more, of which $27 million was included in the less than three month timeframe, $735 million was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, $153 million was included in the six months or greater but less than nine months timeframe, and $11 million was included in the nine months or greater but less than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments, as each security is current on its contractual payments, and our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cashflows on each of these securities resulted in the determination that there is no evidence of probable credit deterioration that would indicate they would be unable to meet their contractual obligations. The declines in fair value were primarily due to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and increased liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our amortized cost, and we have the ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. For private placements our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers formally review all private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. Fixed maturity securities classified as held to maturity are those securities where we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost in our consolidated statements of financial position. Other fixed maturity securities are considered available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value. All held to maturity securities and all available for sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and the duration of the decline, including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines; declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater; declines in value greater than 15%, maintained for more than one year on below investment grade bonds; and 187 declines in value less than six months where there has been a precipitous (generally 50% or greater) decline in value; the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest rate related, including general credit spread widening); our ability and intent to hold our investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, including certain debt securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, and the resulting historically wide bid ask spreads and high levels of price volatility, the extent and duration of a decline in value have become less indicative of when the market may believe there has been credit deterioration with respect to an issuer. Considering these current conditions, and in light of general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 our determinations of whether a decline in value is other than temporary have placed greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our credit analysis of an investment includes determining whether the issuer is current on its contractual payments, evaluating whether it is probable that we will be able to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security, and determining whether we can assert our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. We continue to utilize valuation declines as a potential indicator of credit deterioration, and apply additional levels of scrutiny in our analysis as the severity and duration of the decline increases. For those securities that have declines in value that are deemed to be temporary, we have asserted our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Once identified as such, these securities are restricted from trading unless authorized based upon events that could not have been foreseen at the time we asserted our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the deterioration of the issuers creditworthiness, a major business combination or disposition, a change in regulatory requirements, certain other portfolio actions or other similar events. For those securities that have declines in value for which we cannot assert our ability and intent to retain until recovery, including certain debt securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions, impairments are recognized as other than temporary regardless of the reason for, or the extent of, the decline. In addition, for our impairment review of asset backed fixed maturity securities with a credit rating below AA, we forecast our best estimate of the prospective future cash flows of the security to determine if the present value of those cash flows, discounted using the effective yield of the most recent interest accrual rate, has decreased from the previous reporting period. When a decrease from the prior reporting period has occurred and the securitys fair value is less than its carrying value, an other than temporary impairment is recognized by writing the security down to fair value. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment, the impaired security is accounted for as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income, and included in adjusted operating income in future periods based upon the amount and timing of the expected future cash flows of the security, if the recoverable value of the investment based on those cash flows is greater than the carrying value of the investment after the impairment. Impairments on fixed maturity securities are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net and are excluded from adjusted operating income. For further information regarding the fair value methodology used in determining our other than temporary impairments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Fixed Maturities, above. Other than temporary impairments of general account fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $1.628 billion and $121 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities attributable to the Financial 188 Services Businesses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively were $970 million and $65 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $718 million and $48 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively were $463 million and $15 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Certain products included in the retirement business we acquired from CIGNA, as well as certain products included in the International Insurance segment, are experience rated, meaning that we expect the investment results associated with these products will ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading. These trading investments are reflected on the balance sheet as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Investment income for these investments is reported in Net investment income. The following table sets forth the composition of this portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short term Investments and Cash Equivalents $ 1,232 $ 1,232 $ 554 $ 554 Fixed Maturities: Corporate Securities 8,814 7,971 7,584 7,547 Commercial Mortgage Backed 2,335 2,092 2,625 2,644 Asset Backed Securities 915 635 1,266 1,207 Residential Mortgage Backed 708 684 1,147 1,136 Foreign Government 416 420 347 354 U.S. Government 147 143 82 83 Total Fixed Maturities 13,335 11,945 13,051 12,971 Equity Securities 1,074 698 1,001 948 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities $ 15,641 $ 13,875 $ 14,606 $ 14,473 As a percentage of amortized cost, 75% of the portfolio was publicly traded as of December 31, 2008, compared to 74% as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, 88% of the fixed maturity portfolio was classified as investment grade compared to 92% as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, $464 million of the residential mortgage backed securities were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees all of which have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $132 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represented the remaining $244 million of residential mortgage backed securities, which 95% have credit ratings of A or better and 5% are below investment grade. For a discussion of changes in the fair value of our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities see Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes, above. 189 The following table sets forth the composition by industry category of the corporate securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities by Industry Category Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities Industry(1) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 2,870 $ 2,631 $ 2,220 $ 2,216 Utilities 1,958 1,757 1,709 1,697 Services 1,464 1,302 1,257 1,257 Finance 1,045 931 1,119 1,104 Energy 624 553 435 432 Transportation 462 426 434 433 Retail and Wholesale 390 371 405 403 Other 1 5 5 Total Corporate Securities $ 8,814 $ 7,971 $ 7,584 $ 7,547 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. The following table sets forth our asset backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 4 7 11 39 61 122 2006 69 14 9 7 16 115 221 2005 49 14 63 103 2004 2 11 13 20 2003 & Prior 1 23 8 8 6 46 77 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(1) 125 69 17 26 61 298 543 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by auto loans 111 16 17 144 342 Collateralized by credit cards 27 62 89 167 Other asset backed securities(2) 61 3 11 29 104 155 Total asset backed securities $ 324 $ 88 $ 28 $ 134 $ 61 $ 635 $ 1,207 (1) Included within the $298 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2008 are $38 million of securities supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, of which $16 million are collateralized by second lien exposures. See Fixed Maturity Securities Guaranteed by Monoline Bond Insurers for additional information regarding guarantees from monoline bond insurers. (2) As of December 31, 2008, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $12 million, none of which are secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, timeshares, aircraft, and franchises. 190 The following table sets forth our commercial mortgage backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities Vintage December 31, 2008 TotalDecember 31,2007 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) 2008 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2007 33 33 47 2006 168 168 273 2005 906 906 1,105 2004 385 385 451 2003 & Prior 518 42 24 11 5 600 768 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 2,010 $ 42 $ 24 $ 11 $ 5 $ 2,092 $ 2,644 The following table sets forth our public fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC rating as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1) (2) Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 5,843 $ 48 $ 455 $ 5,436 $ 6,734 $ 54 $ 96 $ 6,692 2 Baa 2,673 4 359 2,318 1,966 11 27 1,950 Subtotal Investment Grade 8,516 52 814 7,754 8,700 65 123 8,642 3 Ba 544 128 416 374 2 9 367 4 B 279 93 186 215 5 210 5 C and lower 50 29 21 11 11 6 In or near default 30 27 3 3 3 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 903 277 626 603 2 17 588 Total Public Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 9,419 $ 52 $ 1,091 $ 8,380 $ 9,303 $ 67 $ 140 $ 9,230 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. 191 The following table sets forth our private fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC rating as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1) (2) Rating Agency Equivalent December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAICDesignation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 Aaa, Aa, A $ 977 $ 2 $ 60 $ 919 $ 887 $ 6 $ 12 $ 881 2 Baa 2,191 13 191 2,013 2,411 33 26 2,418 Subtotal Investment Grade 3,168 15 251 2,932 3,298 39 38 3,299 3 Ba 571 2 74 499 263 3 8 258 4 B 141 37 104 144 2 142 5 C and lower 10 2 8 10 10 6 In or near default 26 4 22 33 1 2 32 Subtotal Below Investment Grade 748 2 117 633 450 4 12 442 Total Private Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 3,916 $ 17 $ 368 $ 3,565 $ 3,748 $ 43 $ 50 $ 3,741 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Investment Mix As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 respectively, we held approximately 13% and 12% of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans. This percentage is net of a $211 million and $118 million allowance for losses as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans $ 19,936 $ 8,765 $ 17,574 7,981 Uncollateralized loans 1,204 40 1,006 Loans collateralized by residential properties(1) 976 1 938 1 Other collateralized loans(2) 129 175 Total commercial mortgage and other loans(3) $ 22,245 $ 8,806 $ 19,693 $ 7,982 (1) Loans collateralized by residential properties includes $965 million and $916 million of Japanese recourse loans as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (2) Other collateralized loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses includes $109 million and $123 million of collateralized consumer loans and $19 million and $17 million of loans collateralized by aviation assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Excluded from the tables above are commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. 192 We originate domestic commercial mortgage loans using dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through our various regional offices across the country. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. Our loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. Uncollateralized loans primarily represent consumer loans extended by Gibraltar Life to individuals for financing purchases of consumer goods and services, which are guaranteed by third party guarantor companies. Composition of Commercial Mortgage Loans The stress experienced in the global financial markets and unfavorable credit market conditions that began in the second half of 2007 and continued and substantially increased throughout 2008 led to a decrease in the overall liquidity and availability of capital in the commercial mortgage loan market, and in particular a decrease in activity by securitization lenders. These conditions have led to greater opportunities for more selective originations by portfolio lenders such as our general account. While we have begun to observe some weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, delinquency rates on our commercial mortgage loans have been relatively stable in recent years. However, continued difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the overall economic downturn could put additional pressure on these fundamentals through rising vacancies, falling rents and falling property values. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial mortgage loans by region: U.S. Regions: Pacific $ 5,854 29.4 % $ 2,834 32.3 % $ 5,242 29.8 % $ 2,665 33.4 % South Atlantic 4,614 23.2 1,751 20.0 4,389 25.0 1,605 20.1 Middle Atlantic 2,953 14.8 1,896 21.6 2,481 14.1 1,671 20.9 East North Central 1,772 8.9 500 5.7 1,646 9.4 398 5.0 West South Central 1,460 7.3 646 7.4 1,007 5.7 558 7.0 Mountain 1,129 5.7 407 4.6 967 5.5 391 4.9 New England 903 4.5 327 3.7 700 4.0 331 4.1 West North Central 604 3.0 180 2.1 621 3.5 208 2.6 East South Central 385 1.9 167 1.9 368 2.1 109 1.4 Subtotal U.S. 19,674 98.7 8,708 99.3 17,421 99.1 7,936 99.4 Asia 1 1 Other 261 1.3 57 0.7 152 0.9 45 0.6 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,936 100.0 % $ 8,765 100.0 % $ 17,574 100.0 % $ 7,981 100.0 % 193 December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 FinancialServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial mortgage loans by property type: Industrial buildings $ 4,544 22.8 % $ 1,959 22.3 % $ 4,140 23.6 % $ 1,908 23.9 % Office buildings 4,024 20.2 1,787 20.4 3,676 20.9 1,581 19.8 Retail stores 3,742 18.8 1,578 18.0 2,576 14.7 1,275 16.0 Apartment Complexes 3,549 17.8 1,727 19.7 3,419 19.4 1,554 19.5 Other 1,719 8.6 518 5.9 1,216 6.9 416 5.2 Agricultural properties 1,224 6.1 769 8.8 1,289 7.3 854 10.7 Hospitality 1,134 5.7 427 4.9 1,258 7.2 393 4.9 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,936 100.0 % $ 8,765 100.0 % $ 17,574 100.0 % $ 7,981 100.0 % Loan to value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage loans. The loan to value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan to value ratios greater than 100% percent indicate that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. Therefore, all else being equal, a smaller loan to value ratio generally indicates a higher quality loan. The debt service coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicates that property operations do not generate enough income to cover its current debt payments. Therefore, all else being equal, a larger debt service coverage ratio generally indicates a higher quality loan. As of December 31, 2008, our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.89 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 58%. As of December 31, 2008, our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.95 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 53%. For those general account commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were originated in 2008, the weighted average loan to value ratio was 60%, and the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was above 1.75 times, both consistent with originations over the last several years. The total portfolio loan to value ratios are lower than our origination loan to value ratio due to principal payments on the loan balances and appreciation of the underlying collateral value. The values utilized in calculating these loan to value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio, which includes a quality re rating as well as an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2008, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio included approximately $1.8 billion and $0.6 billion of such loans, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, respectively. All else being equal, these loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. For information regarding similar loans we hold as part of our commercial mortgage operations, see Invested Asset of Other Entities and Operations. The following tables set forth the gross carrying value of our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 by loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. 194 Commercial Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto1.8x 1.2xto1.5x 1.0xto1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans Loan to Value Ratio (in millions) 0% 50% $ 3,614 $ 695 $ 958 $ 757 $ 121 $ 116 $ 6,261 50% 60% 1,410 485 1,284 552 211 84 4,026 60% 70% 547 548 1,696 1,649 274 4,714 70% 80% 234 228 878 1,066 459 165 3,030 80% 90% 145 209 533 309 131 1,327 90% 100% 159 43 104 101 27 434 Greater than 100% 43 23 59 19 144 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 5,964 $ 2,144 $ 5,068 $ 4,684 $ 1,534 $ 542 $ 19,936 Commercial Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Closed Block Business Loan to Value Ratio December 31, 2008 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto1.8x 1.2xto1.5x 1.0xto1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans (in millions) 0% 50% $ 2,339 $ 574 $ 570 $ 662 $ 72 $ 54 $ 4,271 50% 60% 191 82 501 300 93 72 1,239 60% 70% 213 122 596 684 61 3 1,679 70% 80% 24 165 185 422 164 20 980 80% 90% 21 57 67 141 132 11 429 90% 100% 40 40 Greater than 100% 45 82 127 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 2,788 $ 1,000 $ 1,919 $ 2,209 $ 607 $ 242 $ 8,765 The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage loans by year of origination as of December 31, 2008. Commercial Mortgage Loans by Year of Origination Year of Origination December 31, 2008 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business GrossCarryingValue % of Total GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) 2008 $ 3,603 18.1 % $ 1,174 13.4 % 2007 4,784 24.0 1,709 19.5 2006 3,583 18.0 1,118 12.8 2005 2,329 11.7 852 9.7 2004 1,640 8.2 1,048 11.9 2003 and prior 3,997 20.0 2,864 32.7 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,936 100.0 % $ 8,765 100.0 % 195 Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business GrossCarryingValue % of Total GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2009 $ 1,757 7.9 % $ 322 3.7 % Maturing in 2010 1,879 8.5 555 6.3 Maturing in 2011 2,364 10.6 612 7.0 Maturing in 2012 3,359 15.1 1,112 12.6 Maturing in 2013 2,633 11.8 990 11.2 Maturing in 2014 872 3.9 863 9.8 Maturing in 2015 1,996 9.0 891 10.1 Maturing in 2016 2,001 9.0 893 10.1 Maturing in 2017 1,638 7.4 512 5.8 Maturing in 2018 and beyond 3,746 16.8 2,056 23.4 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 22,245 100.0 % $ 8,806 100.0 % Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality Ongoing review of the portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria. We place loans on early warning status in cases where we detect that the physical condition of the property, the financial situation of the borrower or tenant or other market factors could lead to a loss of principal or interest. We classify loans as closely monitored when there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that will lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. As described below, in determining our allowance for losses we evaluate each loan on the watch list to determine if it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial mortgage loans. We establish an allowance for losses to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process. The allowance includes loan specific reserves for loans that are determined to be non performing as a result of our loan review process, and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. We define a non performing loan as a loan for which it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan specific portion is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Valuation allowances for a non performing loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers our past loan experience, the current credit composition of the portfolio, historical credit migration, property type diversification, default and loss severity statistics and other relevant factors. We record increases or decreases to our valuation allowances when appropriate. 196 The following tables set forth the gross carrying value for commercial mortgage and other loans by loan classification as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Performing $ 22,162 $ 8,788 $ 19,631 $ 7,981 Delinquent, not in foreclosure 57 17 50 Delinquent, in foreclosure 7 Restructured 26 1 5 1 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 22,245 $ 8,806 $ 19,693 $ 7,982 The following table sets forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year $ 90 $ 28 $ 94 $ 35 Addition to/(release of) allowance for losses 58 30 (5 ) (7 ) Charge offs, net of recoveries Change in foreign exchange 5 1 Allowance, end of period $ 153 $ 58 $ 90 $ 28 As of December 31, 2008 the $153 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses includes $8 million related to loan specific reserves and $145 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2008 the $58 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business includes $6 million related to loan specific reserves and $52 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. Equity Securities Investment Mix The equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares, as discussed below, and perpetual preferred securities. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: Equity Securities Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 3,807 $ 43 $ 624 $ 3,226 $ 4,233 $ 317 $ 179 $ 4,371 Private equity 461 20 48 433 254 9 5 258 Total Equity $ 4,268 $ 63 $ 672 $ 3,659 $ 4,487 $ 326 $ 184 $ 4,629 197 Public equity securities include mutual fund shares representing our interest in the underlying assets of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. These mutual funds invest primarily in high yield bonds. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these shares as of December 31, 2008 were $1.306 billion, $23 million, $119 million, and $1.210 billion, respectively. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these shares as of December 31, 2007 were $1.447 billion, $8 million, $26 million, and $1.429 billion, respectively. The equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: Equity Securities Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 2,998 $ 196 $ 811 $ 2,383 $ 3,381 $ 742 $ 200 $ 3,923 Private equity 17 17 17 17 Total Equity $ 3,015 $ 196 $ 811 $ 2,400 $ 3,398 $ 742 $ 200 $ 3,940 Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 1,352 $ 104 $ 3,714 $ 93 Three months or greater but less than six months 340 31 231 17 Six months or greater but less than nine months 174 9 100 4 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 124 6 7 1 Greater than twelve months 7 Total $ 1,990 $ 150 $ 4,059 $ 115 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. 198 The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 1,002 $ 337 $ 201 $ 55 Three months or greater but less than six months 248 80 45 14 Six months or greater but less than nine months 39 17 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 322 88 Greater than twelve months Total(2) $ 1,611 $ 522 $ 246 $ 69 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. (2) As of December 31, 2008 includes $109 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with a cost of $186 million where the estimated fair value had declined below cost by 50% or more. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 were primarily concentrated in the finance, manufacturing, and other sectors compared to December 31, 2007 where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing and other sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $522 million as of December 31, 2008 includes $109 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with a cost of $186 million where the estimated fair value had declined below cost by 50% or more, of which $84 million was included in less than three months timeframe, $12 million was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, $12 million was included in the six months or greater but less than nine months timeframe, and $1 million was included in the nine months or greater but less than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 1,348 $ 106 $ 2,965 $ 96 Three months or greater but less than six months 90 15 Six months or greater but less than nine months 40 3 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 4 1 Greater than twelve months 3 Total $ 1,348 $ 106 $ 3,102 $ 115 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. 199 The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 288 $ 89 $ 241 $ 66 Three months or greater but less than six months 1,289 580 54 19 Six months or greater but less than nine months 72 36 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months Greater than twelve months Total(2) $ 1,649 $ 705 $ 295 $ 85 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. (2) As of December 31, 2008 includes $284 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with a cost of $466 million where the estimated fair value had declined below cost by 50% or more. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing, finance, and service sectors compared to December 31, 2007 where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the finance and services sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $705 million as of December 31, 2008 includes $284 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with a cost of $466 million where the estimated fair value had declined below cost by 50% or more, of which $20 million was included in the less than three month timeframe, $236 million was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, and $28 million was included in the six months or greater but less than nine months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities For those equity securities classified as available for sale we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and the duration of the decline; including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines; declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater; declines in value maintained for one year or greater; and declines in value greater than 50%; the reasons for the decline in value (issuer specific event, currency or market fluctuation); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. 200 Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, and the resulting high levels of price volatility, and in light of general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we extended the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. In particular, we generally recognize other than temporary impairments for securities with declines in value greater than 50% maintained for six months or greater or with any decline in value maintained for one year or greater. In addition, in making our determinations we continue to analyze the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including an assessment of the issuers capital position, and consider our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. For those securities that have declines in value that are deemed to be only temporary, we make an assertion as to our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Once identified, these securities are restricted from trading unless authorized based upon events that could not have been foreseen at the time we asserted our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the deterioration of the issuers creditworthiness, a major business combination or disposition, a change in regulatory requirements, certain other portfolio actions or other similar events. For those securities that have declines in value for which we cannot assert our ability and intent to retain until recovery, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions, impairments are recognized as other than temporary regardless of the reason for, or the extent of, the decline. For perpetual preferred securities, which have characteristics of both debt and equity securities, we apply an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities. For additional discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities above. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. Estimated fair values for publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted market prices or prices obtained from independent pricing services. Estimated fair values for privately traded equity securities are determined using valuation and discounted cash flow models that require a substantial level of judgment. In determining the fair value of certain privately traded equity securities the discounted cash flow model may also use unobservable inputs, which reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Impairments on equity securities are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net and are excluded from adjusted operating income. For further information regarding the fair value methodology used in determining our other than temporary impairments, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Valuation of Equity Securities, above. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $815 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $387 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments are comprised as follows: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Joint ventures and limited partnerships: Real estate related $ 405 $ 348 $ 342 $ 308 Non real estate related 904 1,044 755 1,014 Real estate held through direct ownership 1,109 946 Other 617 237 681 (54 ) Total other long term investments $ 3,035 $ 1,629 $ 2,724 $ 1,268 201 Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations The following table sets forth the composition of the investments held outside the general account in other entities and operations as of the dates indicated. December 31,2008 December 31,2007 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 1,805 $ 1,431 Private, available for sale, at fair value 55 42 Other trading account assets, at fair value 3,488 3,267 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 6 11 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 2,274 2,490 Securities purchased under agreements to resell 480 129 Other long term investments 2,348 2,439 Short term investments 1,218 1,254 Total investments $ 11,674 $ 11,063 The table above includes the invested assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet are not included. Our derivatives trading operations maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks associated with these positions. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts. Our global commodities group provides advice, sales and trading on a global basis covering a wide variety of commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and forward contracts, including agricultural commodities, base and precious metals, major currencies, interest rate and stock indices. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. The positions held relating to these trading operations are primarily included in Other trading account assets. In our banking operations, customer deposit liabilities are primarily supported by fixed maturity and short term investments, in addition to cash and cash equivalents. As part of our asset management operations we make proprietary investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other proprietary investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). These proprietary investments are primarily included in Other long term investments. As part of our asset management operations we also make short term loans to our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds. These short term loans are primarily included in Short term investments. Our asset management operations also include our commercial mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac. We also originate shorter term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. All else being equal, these loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. We expect these loans to be paid off through refinancing or the sale of the underlying collateral by the borrower. As of December 31, 2008, the principal balance of interim loans totaled $1.9 billion. The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in Commercial mortgage and other loans, with related derivatives and other hedging instruments primarily included in Other trading 202 account assets and Other long term investments. For additional information regarding our decision to exit our commercial mortgage securitization operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, see Divested Businesses, above. As of December 31, 2008, invested assets held outside the general account in other entities and operations include available for sale residential mortgage backed securities with amortized cost of $770 million and fair value of $778 million, all of which have credit ratings of AAA, and available for sale commercial mortgage backed securities with amortized cost of $28 million and fair value of $22 million, 75% of which have credit ratings of AA or better and the remaining 25% of which have credit ratings of BB and below. An additional $1 million of commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account are classified as other trading account assets as of December 31, 2008 all of which have AAA credit ratings. As of December 31, 2008, invested assets held outside the general account in other entities and operations also includes available for sale asset backed securities with amortized cost of $240 million and fair value of $222 million. Based on amortized cost, 84% have credit ratings of AAA, 2% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 14% have BBB or below credit ratings. Included within these asset backed securities as of December 31, 2008, are securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $4 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $3 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost and fair value of $10 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. An additional $27 million of asset backed securities held outside the general account as of December 31, 2008 are classified as other trading account assets, 89% of which have credit ratings of AAA and 11% of which have credit ratings of B. Government Sponsored Entities Our exposure to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac includes investments in short term and long term debt securities issued by these government sponsored entities as well as investments in residential mortgage backed securities supported by guarantees from the government sponsored entities. During the third quarter of 2008 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into U.S. government conservatorship. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and fair value of our investments in short term and long term debt securities issued by these government sponsored entities. December 31, 2008 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost Fair Value AmortizedCost Fair Value (in millions) Short term debt securities(1) $ 3,075 $ 3,075 $ 493 $ 493 Long term debt securities(2) 1,430 1,541 114 121 Total investment in debt securities issued by government sponsored entities $ 4,505 $ 4,616 $ 607 $ 614 (1) These investments are included in short term investments and cash equivalents. Amounts for the Financial Services Businesses include amortized cost and fair value of $1.351 billion held outside the general account in other entities and operations. (2) These fixed maturity securities are included within the finance sector of our corporate securities. Amounts for the Financial Services Businesses include $45 million of amortized cost and fair value held outside the general account in other entities and operations. As of December 31, 2008, general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses include $8.894 billion of publicly traded pass through securities with guarantees from Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and AAA credit ratings. These securities are classified as residential mortgage backed securities. An additional $432 million of such securities are included in the trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio of our Financial Services Businesses, and have credit ratings of AAA, and an additional $696 million are held outside the general account in other entities and operations, with credit ratings of AAA. As of December 31, 2008, fixed maturity investments of the Closed Block Business include $2.278 billion of publicly traded pass through securities with guarantees from Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, all of which have AAA credit ratings. These securities are classified as residential mortgage backed securities. 203 As part of the commercial mortgage activities of our Asset Management segment, we provide commercial mortgage origination, underwriting and servicing for certain government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We have agreed to indemnify the government sponsored entities for a portion of the credit risk associated with certain of the mortgages we service through a delegated authority arrangement. Under these arrangements we originate multi family mortgages for sale to the government sponsored entities based on underwriting standards they specify, and make payments to them for a specified percentage share of losses they incur on certain loans we service. Our percentage share of losses incurred generally varies from 2% to 20% of the loan balance, and is typically based on a first loss exposure for a stated percentage of the loan balance, plus a shared exposure with the government sponsored entity for any losses in excess of the stated first loss percentage, subject to a contractually specified maximum percentage. We service $6.704 billion of mortgages subject to these loss sharing arrangements as of December 31, 2008, all of which are collateralized by first priority liens on the underlying multi family residential properties. As of December 31, 2008, these mortgages had an average debt service coverage ratio of 1.7 times and an average loan to value ratio of 61%. The maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2008, assuming no recovery on any of the underlying collateral, is $908 million, with first loss exposure of $288 million. Over the three years ended December 31, 2008, our total share of losses related to indemnifications that were settled was $8 million. As of December 31, 2008, we have established a liability of $13 million related to these indemnifications. Liquidity and Capital Resources Extraordinary Market Conditions and their Impact on our Liquidity and Capital Resources Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2009, severe dislocations in the credit and capital markets, initially driven by broad market concerns over the impact of sub prime mortgage holdings of financial institutions, generally resulted in reduced availability and increased cost of credit for financial institutions in the marketplace, including Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. These dislocations accelerated following the failure, consolidation, or U.S. federal government intervention on behalf of several significant financial institutions. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets reached unprecedented levels, adversely affecting the global economy, particularly in the financial services industry. The U.S. federal government, as well as governments in many countries in which we operate, have taken or are considering taking actions in order to address this financial market dislocation. This market dislocation has adversely impacted our liquidity and capital plans, results of operations, and financial position. For example, the term credit markets for debt and hybrid securities have generally been closed to all financial institutions, including Prudential Financial. In addition, our commercial paper programs have experienced an increase in the cost of funding. The market conditions also negatively impacted the level of capital in our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries, as a result of asset value declines and the need to strengthen reserves, particularly in our annuity businesses. As a consequence of the market dislocation and in order to manage our liquidity and capital resources, we undertook certain actions during the fourth quarter of 2008, including the following: (1) suspended all repurchases of our Common Stock under our share repurchase program; (2) reduced the 2008 Common Stock dividend by approximately 50 percent from the 2007 amount; (3) redeployed certain assets to our insurance subsidiaries from our non insurance subsidiaries such as the subsidiary that holds our minority interest in our Wachovia Securities joint venture; (4) announced our intention to exercise our right under the lookback option to put our Wachovia Securities joint venture interest to Wells Fargo; (5) drew $3 billion of collateralized borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York; (6) participated in the Commercial Paper Funding Facility sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; (7) applied to participate in the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP; (8) implemented certain other actions, including accelerating loan repayments to Prudential Financial by our asset management businesses, to strengthen our cash position in anticipation of the repurchase in June 2009 of our floating rate convertible debt issued in December 2007, as further described in Financing Activities below; and (9) ceased the sale of certain annuity products. These actions enabled us to maintain capital at December 31, 2008 consistent with our ratings objectives, and to maintain sufficient liquidity and capital flexibility. 204 We will make capital contributions to our international insurance operations in Japan during the first quarter of 2009 totaling approximately $400 million. In the event that market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to make further capital contributions to our domestic or international regulated subsidiaries. The Company continues to operate with significant cash on the balance sheet and has access to alternate sources of liquidity, as discussed in Alternative Sources of Liquidity. However, a continuation or worsening of the disruptions in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. Therefore, we may need to take additional actions beyond those described above, which may include but are not limited to: (1) additional capital management activities; (2) further access to our alternative sources of liquidity; (3) accelerating or restructuring loans extended to affiliates; (4) access to external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (5) limiting or curtailing sales of certain products and or restructuring existing products; (6) undertaking asset sales; and (7) seeking temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules. Certain of these actions may require regulatory approval. Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and the Company on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs over a multi year time horizon through our quarterly planning process. We believe that cash flows from the sources of funds presently available to us are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. Prudential Financial The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company and registrant, to meet its obligations, including the payment of shareholder dividends, share repurchases, debt service, operating expenses, capital contributions and obligations to subsidiaries, are dividends, returns of capital, interest income from its subsidiaries, and cash and short term investments. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financials access to the capital markets and bank facilities, as well as the Alternative Sources of Liquidity described below. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial had cash and short term investments of $4.434 billion, a decrease of $270 million from December 31, 2007. Included in the cash and short term investments of Prudential Financial is $537 million held in an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to maximize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its affiliates on a daily basis. Short term investments comprise $707 million of Prudential Financials total cash and short term investments and consist primarily of government agency securities and money market funds. Prudential Financials principal sources and uses of cash and short term investments for the year ended December 31, 2008 were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 (in millions) Sources: Dividends and or returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) $ 3,275 Proceeds from the issuance of retail medium term notes, net of repayments(2) 617 Proceeds from the issuance of junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities)(3) 1,482 Proceeds from short term debt, net of repayments 662 Proceeds from stock based compensation and exercise of stock options 209 Net receipts under intercompany loan agreements(4) 2,413 Total sources 8,658 Uses: Capital contributions to subsidiaries(5) 2,761 Share repurchases(6) 2,161 Shareholder dividends 317 Repayment of long term senior debt, net of issuances(3) 247 Repayment of floating rate convertible senior notes(3) 2,689 Purchase of funding agreements from Prudential Insurance, net of maturities(2) 617 Other, net 136 Total uses 8,928 Net decrease in cash and short term investments $ (270 ) 205 (1) Includes dividends and or returns of capital of $1.5 billion from Prudential Insurance, $847 million from asset management subsidiaries, $762 million from international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $109 million from Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation, $28 million from securities subsidiaries and $29 million from other subsidiaries. (2) Proceeds from the issuance of retail medium term notes have been used primarily to purchase funding agreements from Prudential Insurance. See Financing Activities for a discussion of our retail note program. (3) See Financing Activities. (4) Includes repayment of loans of approximately $1.6 billion by asset management subsidiaries, $792 million by Prudential Securities Group, $430 million by Pruco Reinsurance; offset by a loan of $706 million to an international insurance subsidiary funded with proceeds from a &yen;74 billion borrowing by Prudential Financial in May 2008 under unsecured bridge loan facilities provided by two institutions that matured in February 2009. The remainder represents loans and repayments from other subsidiaries. (5) Includes capital contributions of $634 million to international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $575 million to asset management subsidiaries, $475 million to Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation, $433 million to Pruco Reinsurance, $399 million contribution to Prudential Securities Group, $150 million to Prudential Insurance, and $95 million to an irrevocable trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, which holds assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to certain non qualified retirement plans. (6) See Uses of Capital Share Repurchases. Sources of Capital Prudential Financial is a holding company whose principal asset is its investments in subsidiaries. We believe Prudential Financials capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with its ratings targets. Our long term senior debt credit rating targets for Prudential Financial are A for Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Inc., or Moodys, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, and a for A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best. Our financial strength rating targets for our domestic life insurance companies are AA/Aa/AA for S&P, Moodys and Fitch, respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best. For our current ratings information see Business Ratings. We seek to capitalize all of our subsidiaries and businesses in accordance with their credit ratings targets. As discussed in more detail in Business Ratings, in late September and early October 2008 A.M. Best, Fitch, Moodys, and S&P each revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable. Rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. In addition, actions we take to access third party financing, as discussed below, may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, rating agencies took certain steps with respect to Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. Refer to Business Ratings for more details. A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e., claims paying) ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements and or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. Additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at December 31, 2008 would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $200 million. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of $1.6 billion that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $130 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance. 206 The primary components of capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension and postretirement benefits), outstanding junior subordinated debt and outstanding capital debt of the Financial Services Businesses, as discussed below under Financing Activities. Based on these components, the capital position of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 was as follows: December 31, 2008 (in millions) Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension /postretirement benefits) $ 19,886 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities)(1) 1,518 Capital debt(1) 6,017 Total capital $ 27,421 (1) Our capital debt to total capital ratio was 23.3% as of December 31, 2008. The ratio reflects that the hybrid securities we issued are attributed 75% equity credit, with the remaining 25% treated as capital debt. As shown in the table above, as of December 31, 2008, the Financial Services Businesses had approximately $27.4 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessments of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital was consistent with our AA ratings objectives as of December 31, 2008. In response to the market dislocation affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced that it would use EESA authority to invest an aggregate of $250 billion (of the first $350 billion released under EESA) in capital issued by qualifying U.S. financial institutions under the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program, which is part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The TARP Capital Purchase Program involves the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury. Concurrently, in coordination with the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, through which it guarantees certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC insured institutions and their qualifying holding companies, as well as funds over $250,000 in non interest bearing transaction deposit accounts. In addition, since March 2008, the Federal Reserve has created several lending facilities to stabilize financial markets. Most recently on November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced the Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. The TALF has not yet been finalized but is designed to provide secured financing for newly issued asset backed securities backed by certain types of consumer and small business loans. On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a Financial Stability Plan to build upon existing programs and earmark the second $350 billion of funds that were authorized under the EESA and released in January 2009. The elements of the Financial Stability Plan, as described by the U.S. Treasury, are a Capital Assistance Program and Financial Stability Trust to make capital available to financial institutions through additional purchases of preferred stock, a Public Private Investment Fund to buy legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, a Consumer and Business Lending Initiative to restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses by expanding upon TALF, and a comprehensive housing program to, among other things, help reduce mortgage payments and interest rates. The U.S. Treasury has stated that the Financial Stability Plan will require high levels of transparency and accountability standards and dividend, acquisition and executive compensation restrictions for financial institutions that receive government assistance going forward. We have applied to participate in the Capital Purchase Program, although no determination with respect to our participation has been made. We continue to evaluate other government sponsored programs for which we may be eligible. In addition to the foregoing, the U.S. federal government has taken or is considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict with any certainty whether these actions will be effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets, or on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 207 Uses of Capital Share Repurchases In November 2007, Prudential Financials Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase at managements discretion up to $3.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock in calendar year 2008. In light of recent market volatility and extraordinary events and developments affecting financial markets generally, including market conditions for issuance of certain capital instruments such as hybrid securities, we suspended all purchases of our Common Stock under the 2008 stock repurchase program effective October 10, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, prior to the suspension of the program, we repurchased 29.3 million shares of our Common Stock at a total cost of $2.161 billion. We do not anticipate reinstituting a share repurchase program in 2009. Shareholder Dividends On November 11, 2008, Prudential Financial declared an annual dividend for 2008 of 58 cents per share of Common Stock, payable on December 19, 2008, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 24, 2008. The 2008 Common Stock declared dividend represents a decrease of approximately 50 percent from the 2007 Common Stock dividend. Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries Our insurance and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends or distributions, all dividends or distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be declared or paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus was $2.781 billion and $5.021 billion, respectively. Prudential Insurance recorded applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains of $283 million and $1.582 billion, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prudential Insurance must also notify the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance of its intent to pay a dividend or distribution. If the dividend or distribution, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds a specified statutory limit it is considered an extraordinary dividend or distribution and Prudential Insurance must obtain the prior non disapproval of the Department. The current statutory limitation applicable to New Jersey life insurers is generally the greater of 10% of the prior calendar years statutory surplus, $6.432 billion as of December 31, 2008, or the prior calendar years statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses, $498 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under certain other circumstances. In the second quarter of 2008, Prudential Insurance declared an ordinary dividend of $727 million and an extraordinary dividend of $773 million to Prudential Holdings, LLC. These dividends were paid to Prudential Holdings in the second quarter of 2008 and in turn distributed to Prudential Financial. Our ability to pay an ordinary dividend in 2009 is contingent upon market conditions and other factors. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. Pursuant to Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain other restrictions on Gibraltar Lifes ability to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. We anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life to pay such dividends. There are also regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, which began paying dividends in 2006. Further, current market conditions have impacted capital positions of our international insurance companies, which could further restrict their ability to pay dividends. The ability of our asset management subsidiaries, and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries, to pay dividends is largely unrestricted. See Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries below for additional details on the liquidity of our domestic insurance subsidiaries, international insurance subsidiaries and asset management subsidiaries. 208 Alternative Sources of Liquidity Prudential Financial maintains an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to maximize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between the parent holding company and its affiliates on a daily basis. Depending on the overall availability of cash, the parent holding company invests excess cash on a short term basis or borrows funds in the capital markets. Additional longer term liquidity is available through inter affiliate borrowing arrangements. Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries also have access to bank facilities, as discussed under Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities, as well as the other alternative sources of liquidity described below. Commercial Paper Programs Prudential Financial has a commercial paper program rated A 1 by S&P, P 2 by Moodys and F2 by Fitch with a current authorized capacity of $5.0 billion. Prudential Financial commercial paper borrowings are generally used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financials subsidiaries and provide short term liquidity at Prudential Financial. Prudential Financials outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $1.243 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $50 million from December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the vast majority of this commercial paper was either held in cash or invested in short term financial instruments. The weighted average interest rate on these borrowings was 3.20% and 5.33% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, has a commercial paper program, rated A 1+ by S&P, P 1 by Moodys and F1 by Fitch with a current authorized capacity of $12.0 billion. Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper and master note borrowings were $4.354 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $2.982 billion from December 31, 2007 due to a combination of lower investor demand and increased funding costs. As of December 31, 2008, $1.632 billion of this outstanding commercial paper was funding short term financial instruments, including a portion of our enhanced short term portfolio which is discussed in more detail below under Asset based Financing, and the remainder was primarily utilized to fund short term cash flow timing mismatches and the working capital needs of our affiliates. The weighted average interest rates on these borrowings were 2.50% and 5.10% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prudential Financial has issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings domestic commercial paper program. During the latter half of 2007 and continuing through 2008, the credit markets, and specifically the commercial paper market, were adversely impacted by concerns over the sub prime mortgage exposure of certain financial institutions and asset backed commercial paper programs. Due to continued dislocation within the financial markets, the challenges in the commercial paper market intensified in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result, the financing cost of Prudential Financial commercial paper increased versus its historical cost basis relative to the target federal funds rate as investors demanded a premium for such top tier split rated commercial paper. The financing cost of Prudential Funding commercial paper increased as well versus its historical cost basis relative to the target federal funds rate over the same period. Both Prudential Financials and Prudential Fundings commercial paper programs were granted approval to participate in the Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, during the fourth quarter of 2008. The CPFF is intended to improve liquidity in short term funding markets by increasing the availability of term commercial paper funding to issuers and by providing greater assurance to both issuers and investors that firms will be able to roll over their maturing commercial paper. Our commercial paper must maintain ratings of at least A 1/P 1/F 1 by at least two rating agencies in order to be eligible for the program. Unsecured commercial paper issued under the CPFF will be discounted based on a rate equal to a spread (200 basis points) over the three month overnight index swap rate on the day of purchase. Access to the CPFF for the issuance of new commercial paper is scheduled to terminate on October 30, 2009, unless such date is extended by the Federal Reserve. Prudential Funding is eligible to sell to the CPFF three month unsecured U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper up to a maximum of $9.815 billion, less the outstanding amount of any non CPFF commercial paper at the applicable time. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Funding had $450 million of commercial 209 paper outstanding under the CPFF, with a weighted average maturity of 44 days. Excluding commercial paper issued under CPFF, Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008 had a weighted average maturity of 25 days and approximately 27% was overnight. As of the date of this filing, Prudential Funding had approximately $750 million outstanding under CPFF. On February 19, 2009, the commercial paper credit rating of Prudential Financial was downgraded by Fitch from F1 to F2, as described further in Business Ratings. Consequently, Prudential Financial will no longer be eligible to issue commercial paper under the CPFF. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial had $898 million of commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF, with a weighted average maturity of 40 days. Excluding commercial paper issued under CPFF, Prudential Financials outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008 had a weighted average maturity of 22 days and approximately 3% was overnight. As of the date of this filing, Prudential Financial had approximately $375 million outstanding under CPFF. We continue to monitor market conditions and believe we have sufficient flexibility to reduce our borrowings under the Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding commercial paper programs, if needed, through our alternative sources of liquidity, as discussed in this section. Both commercial paper programs are backed by our unsecured committed lines of credit. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.5 billion. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2008. For a further discussion of lines of credit, see Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities. Asset based Financing We conduct asset based or secured financing within our insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements, in order to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are driven by portfolio holdings in securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short term spread portfolios of our domestic insurance entities. Investments held in the short term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and fixed maturities, including mortgage and asset backed securities, with a weighted average life at time of purchase of two years or less. A portion of the asset backed securities held in our short term spread portfolios, including our enhanced short term portfolio, are collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities for a further discussion of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime holdings, including details regarding those securities held in our enhanced short term portfolio. These short term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other things, do not allow for significant asset/liability interest rate duration mismatch. As of December 31, 2008, our Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $7.455 billion under such programs, including $4.288 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $2.684 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $483 million representing securities sold but not yet purchased. Of the $7.455 billion for the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008, $3.006 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 28 days. As of December 31, 2008, our Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.096 billion under such programs, including $3.612 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $1.484 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the $5.096 billion for the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008, $2.021 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 44 days. As of December 31, 2008, our domestic insurance entities had assets eligible for the lending program of $70.3 billion, of which $10.5 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2008, we believe approximately $19.5 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable. Further changes in market conditions can affect the ability to lend the available assets. 210 As referenced above, these programs are typically limited to securities in demand that can be loaned at relatively low financing rates. As such, we believe there is unused capacity available through these programs. Holdings of cash and cash equivalent investments in these short term spread portfolios allow for further flexibility in sizing the portfolio to better match available financing. Current conditions in both the financing and investment markets are continuously monitored in order to appropriately manage the cost of funds, investment spreads, asset/liability duration matching and liquidity. Federal Home Loan Bank of New York In June 2008, Prudential Insurance became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNYs product line of financial services, including collateralized funding agreements, general asset/liability management, and collateralized advances that can be used for liquidity management. Our membership in FHLBNY requires us to maintain ownership of member stock, and borrowings from FHLBNY require us to purchase FHLBNY activity based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings. Borrowings from the FHLBNY are subject to Prudential Insurance having sufficient qualifying mortgage related assets or U.S. Treasury securities that can be pledged as collateral. Under guidance of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, the total amount of qualifying mortgage related assets and U.S. Treasury securities that can be pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance to FHLBNY is limited to 5% of the prior years statutory admitted assets of Prudential Insurance exclusive of separate account assets, which equates to $7.7 billion based on admitted assets as of December 31, 2007. Based upon this guidance and on the fair value of qualifying assets owned by Prudential Insurance within the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 (including assets on loan and assets pledged to the FHLBNY at that date and taking into account applicable required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBNY stock), the estimated total borrowing capacity with the FHLBNY was approximately $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2008. The fair value of the qualifying assets pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance must be maintained at certain specified levels of the borrowed amount, which can vary, depending on the nature of the assets pledged. If the fair value of the collateral declines below these levels, Prudential Insurance would be required to pledge additional collateral or repay outstanding borrowings. If at the time of a proposed borrowing, or at a time when required to pledge additional collateral in respect of outstanding borrowings, Prudential Insurance had insufficient qualifying assets, it would need to obtain and pledge additional mortgage related assets and or Treasury securities through asset purchases, reacquiring assets on loan or otherwise, subject to availability on appropriate terms. As of December 31, 2008, we pledged qualifying assets with a fair value of $4.075 billion, which is above the minimum level required by the FHLBNY, and had outstanding borrowings of $3 billion, of which $1 billion is reflected in Short term debt. The remaining $2 billion of the FHLBNY borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2008 are reflected in Long term debt, and have maturities ranging from June 4, 2010 to December 6, 2010. At December 31, 2008, FHLBNY proceeds of $1.3 billion were invested in cash and short term investments at Prudential Insurance, while $1.7 billion was used to support the operating needs of our businesses and for the purchase of the requisite FHLB activity based stock. We expect to use approximately $300 million of proceeds, currently invested in cash, to fund additional loans to affiliates. The remaining $1.0 billion in cash and short term instruments is expected to be used for repayment of $1.0 billion of FHLBNY maturities in April 2009. Until such time as they are utilized for these purposes, proceeds may be available as another source of liquidity to Prudential Insurance. We may, from time to time, borrow additional funds from FHLBNY for purposes of managing liquidity, making operating loans to affiliates, asset/liability management, or issuance of funding agreements. In February 2009, Prudential Insurance issued collateralized funding agreements in the amount of $1.0 billion to the FHLBNY. The proceeds from this issuance were used to make spread investments. These funding agreements will be reflected in Policyholders account balances. These funding agreements have priority claim status above debt holders of Prudential Insurance. 211 Economic Capital We are in the process of developing an economic capital framework, and have begun using economic capital as an additional source of information for our business decisions. As we continue developing the framework, we will be assessing our overall capital position using both economic capital and our current framework, which is primarily based on statutory risk based capital measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries General Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the needs of its operations. We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. We use a projection process for cash flows from operations to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet projected cash outflows, including claims. Liquidity is measured against internally developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset portfolio and the liabilities that they support. The results are affected substantially by the overall asset type and quality of our investments. Cash Flow The principal sources of liquidity for Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external borrowings. The principal uses of that liquidity include benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of liquidity include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and payments in connection with financing activities. We believe that the cash flows from our insurance and annuity operations are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, and the relative safety of competing products (including those with enhancements under EESA), each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. In addition, market volatility can impact the level of capital required to support our businesses, particularly in our annuity business. Our domestic insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we also consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. 212 December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total ( $ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions $ 36,880 47 % $ 35,847 49 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment 20,341 26 18,786 26 At market value 1,279 2 1,162 2 At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more 4,048 5 1,594 2 Subtotal 62,548 80 57,389 79 Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5% 15,906 20 15,346 21 Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities $ 78,454 100 % $ 72,735 100 % Individual life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Our annuity reserves with guarantee features may be less susceptible to withdrawal than historical experience indicates, due to the current value of these guarantee features to policyholders as a result of recent market declines. Annuity benefits under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products amounted to approximately $22.5 billion and $19.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Because these withdrawals were consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability management, the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, fixed maturities that are not designated as held to maturity and public equity securities. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our domestic insurance operations had liquid assets of $125.4 billion and $137.0 billion, respectively, which includes a portion financed with asset based financing. The portion of liquid assets comprised of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments was $10.7 billion and $7.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, $100.0 billion, or 89%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our domestic insurance company general account portfolios were rated investment grade. The remaining $12.1 billion, or 11%, of these fixed maturity investments were rated non investment grade. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures in order to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy current liquidity requirements, including under foreseeable stress scenarios. Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of claims. Our domestic insurance companies liquidity is managed through access to substantial investment portfolios as well as a variety of instruments available for funding and or managing short term cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses affecting results of operations. For a further discussion of realized investment gains or losses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. We believe that borrowing temporarily or selling investments earlier than anticipated will not have a material impact on the liquidity of our domestic insurance companies. Payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating and investing activities, respectively, in our financial statements. 213 Prudential Funding, LLC Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, serves as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to limits established with the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. To the extent that other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial have financing needs in excess of these limits, these needs are met through financing from Prudential Financial directly or from third parties. Prudential Funding operates under a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth at all times. Prudential Funding borrows funds primarily through the direct issuance of commercial paper. Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper, including master note borrowings, were $4.354 billion as of December 31, 2008 and $7.336 billion as of December 31, 2007, and are more fully discussed in Alternate Sources of Liquidity. The impact of Prudential Fundings financing capacity on liquidity is considered in the internal liquidity measures of the domestic insurance operations. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Fundings domestic medium term note programs was $172 million and $772 million, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, of which $600 million was reflected in the general obligation short term debt as of December 31, 2007. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Fundings long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 4.03%, and 6.19% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Capital The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is the primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurances RBC ratio to a level consistent with a AA ratings objective. RBC is determined by statutory formulas that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance related risks associated with an insurers products, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of an insurers statutory capitalization. As of December 31, 2008, RBC for Prudential Insurance was approximately 450%, which exceeded the minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. In addition, all of our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries have RBC ratios that exceed the minimum levels required by applicable insurance regulations. (The inclusion of RBC measures is intended solely for the information of investors and is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities.) As discussed above, market conditions during 2008 negatively impacted the level of capital in our domestic life insurance subsidiaries. In order to address these impacts on our capital, we undertook various initiatives to redeploy certain assets to our insurance subsidiaries from our non insurance subsidiaries of the Company. The most material of these initiatives was the contribution of Prudential Securities Group to Prudential Insurance, as discussed below. We also made capital contributions to certain domestic insurance subsidiaries, which the subsidiaries subsequently used to repay portions of their outstanding loans with Prudential Financial. Contribution of Prudential Securities Group to Prudential Insurance As a result of the negative impact of market dislocations on capital levels within Prudential Insurance, we contributed Prudential Securities Group to Prudential Insurance to strengthen capital during the fourth quarter of 2008. This contribution increased Prudential Insurances net admitted assets by $2.2 billion. Prudential Securities Group owns our investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, which we account for under the equity method, as well as other wholly owned businesses, principally our global commodities group. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, Prudential Securities Groups assets totaled $10.4 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. On December 4, 2008, we announced our intention, assuming completion of the merger of Wachovia into Wells Fargo, to exercise our right under the lookback option to put our joint venture interests in Wachovia 214 Securities to Wells Fargo. As reported by Wells Fargo, the merger was completed on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. The full value we expect to receive related to the lookback option is not yet reflected in the capital levels of Prudential Insurance as the investment is carried at book value. We expect to realize the full value no later than the first quarter of 2010. We are continuing to evaluate alternatives to realize the full value of the investment prior to January 2010. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our investment in Wachovia Securities. Distributions from our investment in Wachovia Securities to Prudential Securities Group totaled $104 million and $366 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The other wholly owned businesses in Prudential Securities Group, principally our global commodities group, continue to maintain sufficiently liquid balance sheets, consisting mostly of cash and cash equivalents, segregated client assets, and short term receivables from clients, broker dealers, and exchanges. As registered broker dealers and members of various self regulatory organizations, our U.S. registered broker dealer subsidiaries and Wachovia Securities are subject to the SECs Uniform Net Capital Rule, as well as the net capital requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the various securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. Compliance with these capital requirements could limit the ability of these operations to pay dividends. International Insurance Subsidiaries In our international insurance operations, liquidity is provided through ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity and the interest and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar to the discipline employed for domestic insurance subsidiaries. We monitor liquidity through the use of internal liquidity measures, taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our international insurance subsidiaries had total general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders) of $64.9 billion and $54.4 billion, respectively. Of those amounts, $34.7 billion and $29.5 billion, respectively, were associated with Gibraltar Life. Concurrent with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, substantially all of its insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges, initially 15%, declining to their current 2% level, and reducing to 0% in April 2009, were designed to mitigate the extent, timing, and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers. The charges apply to $23.1 billion and $21.1 billion of Gibraltar Lifes insurance related reserves as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We do not expect any material increases in the level of surrenders due to the expiration of these surrender charges. Policies issued by Gibraltar Life post acquisition are not subject to the above restructured policy surrender charge schedule. Policies issued post acquisition are generally subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value, less applicable surrender charges, which currently start at 5% or more. A special dividend to certain Gibraltar Life policyholders was payable in 2005 and the final dividend will be payable in 2009. The special dividend is based on 70% of the net increase in the fair value, through March 2009, of certain real estate and loans, net of transaction costs and taxes, included in the Gibraltar Life reorganization plan. As of December 31, 2008, a liability of $501 million related to the special dividend is included in Policyholders dividends. The special dividend will take the form of additional policy values, and to a lesser extent, cash. Gibraltar Lifes investment portfolio is structured to provide adequate liquidity for the special dividend. Prudential of Japan had $24.9 billion and $19.2 billion of general account insurance related liabilities, other than dividends to policyholders, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Prudential of Japan did not have a material amount of general account annuity reserves or deposit liabilities subject to 215 discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2008 or December 31, 2007. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Prudential of Japan do not have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our international insurance subsidiaries had cash and short term investments of approximately $2.7 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, and fixed maturity investments, other than those designated as held to maturity, with fair values of $48.8 billion and $42.1 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, $47.8 billion, or 98%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our international insurance subsidiaries were rated investment grade. The remaining $1.0 billion, or 2%, of these fixed maturity investments were rated non investment grade. Of those amounts, $25.2 billion of the investment grade fixed maturity investments and $0.6 billion of the non investment grade fixed maturity investments were associated with Gibraltar Life. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate the adequacy of our international insurance operations liquidity under stress scenarios. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies. All of our international insurance subsidiaries have solvency margins in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities. These solvency margins are also the primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. We manage these solvency margins to a level consistent with our AA ratings objective. During the fourth quarter of 2008, market conditions negatively impacted the level of capital in our international life insurance subsidiaries, particularly in Japan. While our international insurance operations in Japan have been able to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, we will make capital contributions of approximately $400 million to our Japan life insurance subsidiaries during the first quarter of 2009. Maintenance of our solvency ratios at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurers financial strength. We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements as discussed in Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. Cash settlements from this hedging activity result in cash flows to or from Prudential Financial and are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. The cash settlements include those for internal hedges related to the U.S. dollar denominated investments held on the books of the yen based entities as well as for external hedges. A significant yen appreciation over an extended period would result in net cash outflows from Prudential Financial in excess of our historical experience. Asset Management Subsidiaries Our asset management businesses, which include real estate, public and private fixed income and public equity asset management, as well as commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and retail investment products, such as mutual funds and other retail services, are largely unregulated from the standpoint of dividends and distributions. Our asset management subsidiaries through which we conduct these businesses generally do not have restrictions on the amount of distributions they can make, and provide a relatively stable source of significant cash flow to Prudential Financial. The principal sources of liquidity for our fee based asset management businesses include asset management fees, and commercial mortgage servicing fees. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses, and distribution of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks for our fee based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe the cash flows from our fee based asset 216 management businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of their operations, as well as requirements that could arise under foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. The principal sources of liquidity for our proprietary investments and interim loans are cash flows from investments, the ability to liquidate investments, and available borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, and external sources. The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults. The current adverse market conditions have increased the liquidity risks associated with our proprietary investments and interim loans. The markets for certain investments, such as commercial mortgages and real estate, have become less liquid. If we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. In the fourth quarter of 2008, two entities within the Asset Management segment made a request to redeem their entire investment from a proprietary fixed income fund, which aggregate investments were $185 million as of December 31, 2008. The fixed income fund has suspended redemptions. Due to market conditions, the amount and timing of the payment of redemption proceeds cannot be predicted at this time. In December 2008, we received approval from the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance for Prudential Insurance to extend an 18 month $1.5 billion lending facility to our commercial mortgage operation that is collateralized primarily by its interim loan portfolio. In December 2008, the facility was executed and the proceeds were used to repay financing provided by Prudential Financial. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $1.0 billion was outstanding. During the fourth quarter of 2008, in our proprietary investing business, we received repayments of real estate loans secured by equity commitments from investors and assets of funds managed by us, and we reduced exposure to certain public equity and real estate seed investments. The proceeds of these activities, which totaled $1.0 billion, were used to repay financing provided by Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding. Certain real estate funds under management are held for the benefit of clients in insurance company separate accounts sponsored by Prudential Insurance. In the normal course of business, these separate accounts enter into purchase commitments which include commitments to purchase real estate, invest in future real estate partnerships, and or fund additional construction or other expenditures on previously acquired real estate investments. Certain purchases of real estate are contingent on the developers development of the real estate according to plans and specifications outlined in a pre sale agreement or the property achieving a certain level of leasing. Purchase commitments are typically entered into by Prudential Insurance on behalf of the particular separate account and, upon acquisition, are titled either in Prudential Insurance or an LLC subsidiary formed for that purpose. In certain cases, the commitments specify that recourse on the obligation is limited to the assets of the separate account. As of December 31, 2008, these separate account portfolios had $10.2 billion of outstanding purchase commitments, of which $4.8 billion are anticipated to become due in 2009 and others may become due upon a failure to maintain required loan to value ratios or to satisfy other financial covenants. Of the $10.2 billion of total commitments, $4.9 billion are full recourse to PICA, of which $2.3 billion are anticipated to become due in 2009. Of the $10.2 billion of total commitments, $7.4 billion represents commitments that are not reflected on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. These separate accounts have also entered into syndicated credit facilities providing for borrowings in the aggregate amount of $1.16 billion, of which $1.10 billion was outstanding at February 23, 2009. These facilities also include loan to value ratio requirements and other financial covenants. Recourse on obligations under these facilities is limited to the assets of the applicable separate account. As of December 31, 2008, the separate account portfolios had a combined net asset value of $17.7 billion. At the time of maturity of a commitment obligation, Prudential Insurance often endeavors to negotiate extensions, refinancings or other solutions with creditors. Management believes that the separate accounts have sufficient resources to ultimately meet their obligations. However, because of the volatility and disruption in the credit and capital markets, the separate accounts may not be able to timely fund all maturing obligations from regular sources such as asset sales, operating cash flow, deposits from clients and debt refinancings or from the above mentioned portfolio level credit facilities. In cases where the separate account is not able to fund maturing obligations, Prudential Insurance may be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions. 217 As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our asset management subsidiaries had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.192 billion and $1.153 billion, respectively, which include $462 million and $393 million of short term loans to real estate funds, respectively. In reporting results for the three months ended March 31, 2008, we had classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business for all periods reported, reflecting our decision to exit this business. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment. We do not expect this decision to have a material impact on the liquidity of our Asset Management subsidiaries. For further details, see Divested Businesses. Financing Activities As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, total short and long term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was $30.8 billion and $29.8 billion, respectively, which includes $16.7 billion and $16.7 billion, respectively, related to the parent company, Prudential Financial. Prudential Financial Borrowings Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital and other funding needs, as well as the capital and other funding needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, other than debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt: Commercial paper $ 1,243 $ 1,293 Floating rate convertible senior notes 2,151 4,883 Foreign denominated bridge loan facility 816 Current portion of long term debt 264 973 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 7,255 6,875 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,518 Retail medium term notes 3,413 2,688 Total general obligations $ 16,660 $ 16,712 The following table presents, as of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financials contractual maturities of its general obligation long term debt: Calendar Year Senior Debt Junior SubordinatedDebt Retail Medium term Notes (in millions) 2010 $ 25 $ $ 30 2011 350 135 2012 250 147 2013 1,100 235 2014 and thereafter 5,530 1,518 2,866 Total $ 7,255 $ 1,518 $ 3,413 In March 2006, Prudential Financial filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a Well Known Seasoned Issuer under SEC rules, Prudential Financials shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing, pay as you go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendments. Also, in accordance with these rules, the shelf registration statement has no stated issuance capacity. 218 In March 2006, Prudential Financial filed a prospectus supplement for its Medium Term Notes, Series D program under the shelf registration statement, which superseded its Medium Term Notes, Series C program. In January 2008, the authorized issuance capacity of the Series D program was increased by $5 billion to $10 billion, and as of December 31, 2008, approximately $4.9 billion remained available under the program. In January 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 5 year medium term notes under this program. The net proceeds from the sale of these notes were used to fund operating needs of our subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials medium term and senior notes, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 5.41% and 5.40% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. Given the disruptions in the credit markets, we have been unable to issue debt at an affordable cost recently and it is uncertain at this time whether we can currently issue debt under our MTN program at all, or at a cost that would not be prohibitive. In March 2006, Prudential Financial filed a prospectus supplement under the shelf registration statement for its retail medium term notes, including the InterNotes&reg; program, which superseded the 2005 retail medium term notes program. In March 2008, the authorized issuance capacity of the retail medium term notes program was increased by $2.5 billion to $5 billion, and as of December 31, 2008, approximately $2.3 billion remained available under the program. This retail medium term notes program has served as a funding source for a spread product of our Retirement segment that is economically similar to funding agreement backed medium term notes issued to institutional investors, except that the retail notes are senior unsecured obligations of Prudential Financial and are primarily purchased by retail investors. However, proceeds from the retail medium term note program can also be used for general corporate purposes. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials retail medium term notes were 5.99% and 5.61% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. Our retail medium term notes program has also been negatively impacted by the disruptions in the credit markets. The decline in demand for risk bearing investments among retail investors, and the related increase in funding costs, has resulted in a halt in new debt issuances under this program. As the market dislocations abate and investor demand improves, we may resume issuances under the program. In May 2008, Prudential Financial borrowed &yen;74 billion under unsecured bridge loan facilities provided by two institutions. These facilities matured on February 13, 2009 and were repaid using internal sources of cash. The carrying value of these loans was $816 million as of December 31, 2008. The net proceeds had been used to repay maturing debt that was issued concurrently with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, which served to fund capital requirements of Gibraltar Life. In June 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated notes to institutional investors. Also in June 2008, Prudential Financial issued $800 million of junior subordinated notes to retail investors with a fixed interest rate of 9.0% paid quarterly. In July 2008, Prudential Financial issued an additional $120 million of retail junior subordinated notes following the underwriters exercise of their over allotment option. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of notes have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. Prudential Financial is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to market disruption events, to raise sufficient proceeds from the issuance of specified qualifying capital securities, which include hybrid capital securities, to repay the principal of the notes at their scheduled maturity. For the institutional notes, interest is payable semi annually at a fixed rate of 8.875% until June 15, 2018, from which date interest is payable quarterly at a floating rate of 3 month LIBOR plus 5.00%. Prudential Financial may redeem the institutional notes, subject to the terms of the replacement capital covenant, or RCC, as discussed below, in whole or in part, on or after June 15, 2018 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, or prior to June 15, 2018 at a make whole price. Prudential Financial may redeem the retail notes subject to the terms of the RCC as discussed below, on or after June 15, 2013, in whole or in part, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, or prior to June 15, 2013, in whole, at a make whole price. Both series of notes may also be redeemed in whole upon the occurrence of certain defined events. Prudential Financial has the right to defer interest payments on either or both series of notes for a period up to ten years, during which time interest will be compounded. If Prudential Financial were to exercise its right to defer interest it will be required, commencing on the earlier of (i) the first interest payment date on which current interest is paid after the deferral period or (ii) the fifth anniversary of the deferral period, to issue specified alternative payment securities, which include but are not limited to Common Stock, to satisfy its obligation with respect to the deferred interest. In connection with the issuance of both series of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a 219 RCC for the benefit of holders of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agreed that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase the notes prior to June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities, which include but are not limited to hybrid capital securities as well as Common Stock. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including acceleration due to an event of default. Prudential Financial used the proceeds from the issuance of these notes for general corporate purposes and to repurchase shares of its Common Stock under the 2008 share repurchase authorization. In January 2008, Prudential Financial filed a prospectus supplement to register under the shelf registration statement resales of the floating rate convertible senior notes that were issued in a private placement in December 2006 ($2.0 billion). These notes are convertible by the holders at any time after issuance into cash and shares of Prudential Financials Common Stock. The conversion price, $104.21 per share, is subject to adjustment upon certain corporate events. The conversion feature requires net settlement in shares; therefore, upon conversion, a holder would receive cash up to the par amount of the convertible notes surrendered for conversion and shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock only for the portion of the settlement amount in excess of the par amount, if any. The interest rate on these notes is a floating rate equal to 3 month LIBOR minus 2.4%, with a minimum interest rate of 0%, to be reset quarterly. These notes have been redeemable by Prudential Financial, at par plus accrued interest, since December 13, 2007. Holders of the notes may also require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes, at par plus accrued interest, on contractually specified dates. At the request of the holders, on December 12, 2008 and 2007, $1.879 billion and $117 million, respectively, of senior notes were repurchased by Prudential Financial. As of December 31, 2008, $4 million of these notes remain outstanding. The next date on which holders of the notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes is December 12, 2009. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these convertible senior notes. In April, July and October 2008, Prudential Financial filed prospectus supplements to register under the shelf registration statement resales of the floating rate convertible senior notes that were issued in a private placement in December 2007 ($3.0 billion). These notes are convertible by the holders at any time after issuance into cash and shares of Prudential Financials Common Stock. The conversion price, $132.39 per share, is subject to adjustment upon certain corporate events. The conversion feature requires net settlement in shares; therefore, upon conversion, a holder would receive cash up to the par amount of the convertible notes surrendered for conversion and shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock only for the portion of the settlement amount in excess of the par amount, if any. The interest rate on these notes is a floating rate equal to 3 month LIBOR minus 1.63%, with a minimum interest rate of 0%, to be reset quarterly. These notes are redeemable by Prudential Financial, at par plus accrued interest, on or after June 16, 2009. Holders of the notes may also require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes, at par plus accrued interest, on contractually specified dates, of which the first such date is June 15, 2009. Prior to such date, we may, from time to time, depending on economic considerations choose to repurchase portions of the outstanding notes from certain qualified institutional buyers. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we repurchased, in individually negotiated transactions, $853 million of these notes which were offered to the Company by certain holders. These notes were repurchased at a discount resulting in a pre tax gain of $41 million that is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. As of December 31, 2008, $2.147 billion of these notes remain outstanding. At December 31, 2008, $1.8 billion of the proceeds were held in cash and short term investments. The remainder was used to fund operating loans to affiliates. In the event the investors elect to put the notes to us on June 15, 2009, we intend to defease our obligation through a combination of existing cash and short term investments and repayment of loans by our affiliates. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these convertible senior notes. We are required beginning on January 1, 2009 to retrospectively adopt the requirements of Financial Statement Position APB 14 1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement). This guidance will impact the accounting for our convertible debt instruments as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2008, Prudential Financial updated its European medium term notes program. The Company is authorized to issue up to $1.5 billion of notes under the program. As of December 31, 2008, there was no debt outstanding under this program. 220 Consolidated Borrowings Current capital markets activities for the Company on a consolidated basis principally consist of unsecured short term and long term debt borrowings issued by Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, unsecured third party bank borrowings, and asset based or secured financing. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table below. The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt(1) $ 10,217 $ 15,349 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 11,054 10,103 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,518 Surplus notes(2) 3,644 2,044 Other(1) 2,000 Total general obligation long term debt 18,216 12,147 Total general obligations 28,433 27,496 Limited and non recourse borrowing: Limited and non recourse short term debt 338 308 Limited and non recourse long term debt(3) 2,074 1,954 Total limited and non recourse borrowing 2,412 2,262 Total borrowings(4) 30,845 29,758 Total asset based financing 12,551 18,236 Total borrowings and asset based financings $ 43,396 $ 47,994 (1) As of December 31, 2008, $1.0 billion and $2.0 billion of short term and long term debt, respectively, were collateralized borrowings with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. (2) As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, includes $3.200 billion and $1.600 billion, respectively, of floating rate surplus notes issued by subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance to fund regulatory reserves, as well as $444 million of fixed rate surplus notes issued by Prudential Insurance. (3) As of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse long term debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business. (4) Does not include $7.1 billion and $8.5 billion of medium term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such notes as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. These notes are included in Policyholders account balances. For additional information see Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program. Total general debt obligations increased by $937 million from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, reflecting a $6.069 billion net increase in long term debt and a $5.132 billion net decrease in short term debt. The net increase in long term debt was primarily driven by the issuance of junior subordinated debt in the second quarter of 2008, as well as the net issuance of medium term notes, retail medium term notes, and surplus notes, partially offset by the reclassification of long term debt to short term debt. The net decrease in short term debt was primarily due to a decrease in outstanding commercial paper supporting our operating businesses at Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, the maturity of medium term notes and the repurchase of floating rate convertible senior notes. The NAIC has adopted a Model Regulation entitled Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Regulation XXX, and a supporting Guideline entitled The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Guideline AXXX. The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX on our term and universal life insurance businesses, including those actions which are described in more detail below. 221 During 2006, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into a surplus note purchase agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides for the issuance of up to $3 billion of ten year floating rate surplus notes (commonly referred to as XXX notes) for the purpose of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain term life insurance policies. Concurrent with the issuance of each surplus note, Prudential Financial enters into arrangements with the buyer, which are accounted for as derivative instruments, that may result in payments by, or to, Prudential Financial over the term of the surplus notes, to the extent there are significant changes in the value of the surplus notes. Principal factors that impact the value of the surplus notes are mortality experience and interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, there have been no payments made under the derivative instrument. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the subsidiary issued an additional $1.600 billion of surplus notes, resulting in total outstanding notes under this facility of $2.700 billion and $1.100 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During 2007, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance issued $500 million of 45 year floating rate surplus notes (commonly referred to as AXXX notes) to an unaffiliated financial institution for the purpose of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain universal life insurance policies. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Concurrent with the issuance of these surplus notes, Prudential Financial entered into a credit derivative that will require Prudential Financial to make certain payments in the event of deterioration in the value of the surplus note. Under this credit derivative, we are required to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10 year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financials senior debt. As of December 31, 2008, when estimates of Prudential Financials 10 year credit default swap spreads were 575 basis points, we posted $125 million of collateral under this agreement. We estimate that the collateral posting requirements could be $400 million at an effective 10 year credit default swap spread of 2,000 basis points, based on indications of forward LIBOR rates as of December 31, 2008. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs in 2009 to finance statutory reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. However, based on current market conditions, we may not be able to finance these needs. We are currently reviewing both internal and external sources of funding to address these needs. Our total borrowings consist of capital debt, investment related debt, securities business related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Capital debt is borrowing that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of Prudential Financial as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our individual annuity business, real estate franchises and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. Consolidated borrowings as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 included $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse debt attributable to the Closed Block Business. 222 The following table summarizes our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of the dates indicated: December 31,2008 December 31,2007 (in millions) General obligations: Capital debt $ 7,535 $ 4,781 Investment related 16,500 16,379 Securities business related 3,356 4,776 Specified other businesses 1,042 1,560 Total general obligations 28,433 27,496 Limited and non recourse debt 2,412 2,262 Total borrowings $ 30,845 $ 29,758 Short term debt $ 10,555 $ 15,657 Long term debt 20,290 14,101 Total borrowings $ 30,845 $ 29,758 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 28,652 $ 26,865 Borrowings of Closed Block Business 2,193 2,893 Total borrowings $ 30,845 $ 29,758 Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program In 2003, Prudential Insurance established a Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium term notes (which are included in our statements of financial position in Policyholders account balances and not included in the foregoing table) secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance and included in our Retirement segment. The funding agreements provide cash flow sufficient for the debt service on the related medium term notes. The medium term notes are sold in transactions not requiring registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The notes have fixed or floating interest rates and original maturities ranging from two to seven years. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes totaled approximately $7.1 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively, out of a total authorized amount of up to $15 billion. The decrease in outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes is reflective of maturities outpacing new issuances during 2008. Sales of these notes have been negatively impacted by unfavorable capital markets conditions, in particular during the second half of 2008 as the stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased. The aggregate maturities of these notes over the next 12 months are approximately $2.5 billion. We intend to repay the maturing notes through a combination of cash flows from new liability origination, asset maturities, asset sales and internal sources of funds such as Prudential Funding. Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.5 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $2.0 billion 5 year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 22 financial institutions, and a $2.5 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.3 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions. We maintain these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under either facility as of December 31, 2008. Any borrowings made under these outstanding facilities would mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and would bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit. In January of 2009, a consent was executed removing Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Bank FSB, as participants in the facilities. Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which filed for bankruptcy in October 2008, had been a participant in the $2 billion facility in the amount of $60 million. Lehman Brothers Bank FSB had been a participant in the $2.5 billion facility in the amount of $100 million. The result of this action was a reduction in the overall facility total to $4.34 billion. 223 Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financials maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on GAAP stockholders equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital was $9.1 billion and $11.0 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Prudential Financials consolidated GAAP stockholders equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, was $20.2 billion and $23.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions. Contractual Obligation The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on managements estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows. Estimated Payments Due by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years Morethan 5Years (in millions) Short term and long term debt obligations(1) $ 45,346 $ 11,746 $ 4,994 $ 6,725 $ 21,881 Operating lease obligations(2) 864 198 309 228 129 Purchase obligations: Commitments to purchase or fund investments(3) 10,105 5,342 4,033 730 Commercial mortgage loan commitments(4) 1,514 677 605 137 95 Other liabilities: Insurance liabilities(5) 982,244 44,412 59,403 60,486 817,943 Other(6) 13,520 12,551 969 Total $ 1,053,593 $ 74,926 $ 70,313 $ 68,306 $ 840,048 (1) The estimated payments due by period for long term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. The estimate for future interest payments includes the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short term and long term debt. (2) The estimated payments due by period for operating leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases, as disclosed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no significant capital lease obligations. (3) We have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlement of these obligations are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include $7.443 billion that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. Of these separate account commitments, $3.255 billion have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. For further discussion of these separate account commitments, see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. (4) Loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment; however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration. In certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee. (5) The estimated payments due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances, policyholders dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities. These future estimated cash outflows are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience, consider future premium receipts on current policies in force, and assume market growth and interest crediting consistent 224 with assumptions used in amortizing deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired. These cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest and, as a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $982 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $371 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2008. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash outflows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, actual cash outflows will differ, possibly materially, from these estimates. (6) The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities recorded under FASB Interpretation No. 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, and other miscellaneous liabilities. We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2008. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees and Other Contingencies In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently required to make payments now or in the future. A number of guarantees provided by us relate to real estate investments held in our separate accounts, in which the separate account has borrowed funds, and we have guaranteed their obligation to their lender. We provide these guarantees to assist the separate account in obtaining financing for the transaction. Our maximum potential exposure under these guarantees was $2.508 billion as of December 31, 2008. Any payments that may become required of us under these guarantees would either first be reduced by proceeds received by the creditor on a sale of the underlying collateral, or would provide us with rights to obtain the underlying collateral. Recourse for $2.025 billion of the maximum potential exposure is limited to the assets of the separate account. The remaining exposure primarily relates to guarantees limited to fraud, criminal activity or other bad acts. These guarantees generally expire at various times over the next ten years. At December 31, 2008, no amounts were accrued as a result our assessment that it is unlikely payments will be required. We have also provided a guarantee to a syndication of lenders in connection with a retail development project in Singapore that is 50% co owned by us and an unconsolidated real estate fund we manage. The principal provisions in the guarantee requires that the loan to value ratio of the retail development project be maintained at 60% or lower, based on an external appraisal. A loan to value ratio in excess of 60% would require us and our co owner to jointly and severally paydown the loan balance to the 60% level. The current loan to value ratio, based on a December 2008 appraisal, is 59.6%. Other obligations under the guarantee include guaranteeing the interest servicing on the loan on a proportionate basis and undertaking to fund development cost overruns. Our exposure under the guarantee was $167 million as of December 31, 2008, which assumes the co owner honors their joint guarantee. We write credit derivatives under which we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the defaulted security or similar security. Our maximum amount at risk under these credit derivatives, assuming the value of the underlying referenced securities become worthless, is $1.222 billion at December 31, 2008. These credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning credit derivatives. Certain contracts underwritten by the Retirement segment include guarantees related to financial assets owned by the guaranteed party. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives, at fair value, in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As of December 31, 2008, such contracts in force carried a total guaranteed value of $5.502 billion. These guarantees are supported by collateral that is not reflected on our balance sheet. This collateral had a fair value of $5.437 billion as of December 31, 2008. We arrange for credit enhancements of certain debt instruments that provide financing for commercial real estate assets, including certain tax exempt bond financings. The credit enhancements provide assurances to the 225 debt holders as to the timely payment of amounts due under the debt instruments. As of December 31, 2008, such enhancement arrangements total $126 million, with remaining contractual maturities of up to 15 years. Our obligation to reimburse required payments is secured by mortgages on the related real estate, which properties are valued at $148 million as of December 31, 2008. We receive certain ongoing fees for providing these enhancement arrangements and anticipate the extinguishment of our obligation under these enhancements prior to maturity through the aggregation and transfer of our positions to a substitute enhancement provider. As of December 31, 2008, we have accrued liabilities of $2 million representing unearned fees on these arrangements. As part of the commercial mortgage activities of our Asset Management segment, we provide commercial mortgage origination, underwriting and servicing for certain government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We have agreed to indemnify the government sponsored entities for a portion of the credit risk associated with certain of the mortgages we service through a delegated authority arrangement. Under these arrangements, we originate multi family mortgages for sale to the government sponsored entities based on underwriting standards they specify, and make payments to them for a specified percentage share of losses they incur on certain loans we service. Our percentage share of losses incurred generally varies from 2% to 20% of the loan balance, and is typically based on a first loss exposure for a stated percentage of the loan balance, plus a shared exposure with the government sponsored entity for any losses in excess of the stated first loss percentage, subject to a contractually specified maximum percentage. We service $6.704 billion of mortgages subject to these loss sharing arrangements as of December 31, 2008, all of which are collateralized by first priority liens on the underlying multi family residential properties. As of December 31, 2008, these mortgages had an average debt service coverage ratio of 1.7 times and an average loan to value ratio of 61%. The maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2008, assuming no recovery on any of the underlying collateral, is $908 million, with first loss exposure of $288 million. Over the three years ended December 31, 2008, our total share of losses related to indemnifications that were settled was $8 million. As of December 31, 2008, we have established a liability of $13 million related to these indemnifications. In connection with certain acquisitions, we agreed to pay additional consideration in future periods, based upon the attainment by the acquired entity of defined operating objectives. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we do not accrue contingent consideration obligations prior to the attainment of the objectives. As of December 31, 2008, maximum potential future consideration pursuant to such arrangements, to be resolved over the following five years, is $133 million. Any such payments would result in increases in intangible assets, including goodwill. We are also subject to other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. We have provided indemnities and guarantees related to acquisitions, dispositions, investments and other transactions that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees. As of December 31, 2008, we have accrued liabilities of $6 million associated with all other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements, which does not include retained liabilities associated with sold businesses. Other Contingent Commitments In connection with our commercial mortgage operations, we originate commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding commercial mortgage loan commitments with borrowers of $1.514 billion. In certain of these transactions, we prearrange that we will sell the loan to an investor after we fund the loan. As of December 31, 2008, $359 million of our commitments to originate commercial mortgage loans are subject to such arrangements. We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. These other commitments amounted to $10.252 billion as of December 31, 2008. Reflected in these other commitments are $10.105 billion of commitments to purchase or fund investments, including $7.443 billion that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. Of these separate account commitments, $3.255 billion have recourse to Prudential Insurance 226 if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. For further discussion of these separate account commitments, see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets. 227 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. The market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. While a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. As part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation requirements, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. These strategies exclude our guaranteed minimum income benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, which include risks we have deemed suitable to retain. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. For a discussion of asset based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. 228 In addition, certain products supported by general account investments expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. Market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long term savings, protection and other investment products. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see Item 1A. Risk Factors. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. As part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk, or VaR, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance and Annuities Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. For additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Management of Investments. We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our U.S. regulatory cash flow and stress scenario testing for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. 229 Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 73% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2008 and 76% as of December 31, 2007. With respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk free rate. The following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. NotionalAmount ofDerivatives As of December 31, 2008 HypotheticalChange inFair Value FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities(1) $ 174,724 $ 163,212 $ (11,512 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 30,570 29,474 (1,096 ) Policy loans 11,833 10,981 (852 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 92,094 1,855 393 (1,462 ) Futures 7,345 (50 ) (301 ) (251 ) Options 5,371 1,895 1,758 (137 ) Forwards 9,996 (143 ) (188 ) (45 ) Variable Annuity and Other Living Benefit Feature Embedded Derivatives(2) (3,229 ) (2,255 ) 974 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (27,051 ) (25,227 ) 1,824 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (167 ) (167 ) Investment contracts (69,933 ) (67,882 ) 2,051 Bank customer liabilities (1,354 ) (1,347 ) 7 Net estimated potential loss $ (10,499 ) 230 NotionalAmount ofDerivatives As of December 31, 2007 HypotheticalChange inFair Value FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After + 100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities(1) $ 179,940 $ 169,374 $ (10,566 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 30,621 29,371 (1,250 ) Policy loans 10,751 10,055 (696 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 59,132 (524 ) (944 ) (420 ) Futures 4,812 (7 ) 19 26 Options 4,759 627 557 (70 ) Forwards 8,851 72 71 (1 ) Variable Annuity and Other Living Benefit Feature Embedded Derivatives(2) (168 ) 17 185 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (29,737 ) (28,597 ) 1,140 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (445 ) (445 ) Investment contracts (65,868 ) (64,624 ) 1,244 Bank customer liabilities (1,334 ) (1,329 ) 5 Net estimated potential loss $ (10,403 ) (1) Includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under U.S. GAAP, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) The hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) Included in Other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. The tables above do not include approximately $152 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2008 and $130 billion as of December 31, 2007 which are not considered financial liabilities. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. Our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of December 31, 2008 increased $96 million from December 31, 2007. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 for U.S. equities. For foreign equities we benchmark against the Tokyo Price Index, or TOPIX, and the MSCI EAFE, a market index of European, Australian, and Far Eastern equities. We target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of December 31, 2008 was $680 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $6.803 billion to $6.123 billion. Our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of December 31, 2007 was $958 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.580 billion to $8.622 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. 231 In addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2008, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $7.306 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $1.908 billion asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $3.229 billion liability. As of December 31, 2007, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $4.615 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $617 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $168 million liability. Our estimated equity price risk associated with the equity based derivatives, net of the related living benefit features, was less than $10 million as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. These scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. In addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. The impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into U.S. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. Our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations primarily in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Europe. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. To mitigate potential losses due to fluctuations in these exchange rates, for our equity investments in our International operations other than in Japan and Taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. For our equity investments in our Japanese and Taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding U.S. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. Third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in U.S. dollar denominated investments. Most significantly, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments in their investment 232 portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. For a discussion of our Japanese operations U.S. dollar denominated investment holdings, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Portfolio Composition, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. We manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. Foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using VaR based analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2008 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $108 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.033 billion to $925 million. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2007 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $46 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.798 billion to $1.752 billion. The average VaR for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $70 million during 2008 and $35 million during 2007. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. The estimated VaR for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $148 million as of December 31, 2008 and $73 million as of December 31, 2007. The increased VaR for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects increased volatility in exchange rates for Japanese yen and Korean won. Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. We are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. The notional amount of derivative instruments increased $37 billion in 2008, from $78 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $115 billion as of December 31, 2008, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily due to an increase in duration management and variable annuity hedging activities. We use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and in limited instances purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. For additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities. 233 Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. We maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts and are generally short term in duration. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. In the second quarter of 2007, the Company announced its decision to exit the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. The total VaR for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million as of December 31, 2008 and $1 million as of December 31, 2007. The largest component of this total VaR as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was related to commodities price risk. The total average daily VaR for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million during 2008 and $1 million during 2007. The largest component of both periods total average daily VaR was related to commodities price risk. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, VaR models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 234 
 
