ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward Looking Statements included below the Table of Contents, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are discussed below. Financial Services Businesses Our Financial Services Businesses consist of three operating divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division consists of our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division consists of our International Insurance and International Investments segments. Our Corporate and Other operations include our real estate and relocation services business, as well as corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that have been or will be divested, including our investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture which we sold on December 31, 2009, and businesses that we have placed in wind down status. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment, excluding financing costs associated with corporate debt which are reflected in Corporate and Other operations. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of capital that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. 71 Table of Contents We seek growth internally and through acquisitions, joint ventures or other forms of business combinations or investments. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. Closed Block Business In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our traditional domestic in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. At the time of demutualization, we determined the amount of Closed Block assets so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, holders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. Concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets that we must hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities, and certain other related assets and liabilities. The Closed Block Business is not a separate legal entity from the Financial Services Businesses; however, they are operated as separate entities and are separated for financial reporting purposes. The Financial Services Businesses are not obligated to pay dividends on Closed Block policies. Dividends on Closed Block policies reflect the experience of the Closed Block over time and are subject to adjustment by Prudential Insurances Board of Directors. Further, our plan of demutualization provides that we are not required to pay dividends on policies within the Closed Block from assets that are not within the Closed Block and that the establishment of the Closed Block does not represent a guarantee that any certain level of dividends will be maintained. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management and administrative fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. 72 Table of Contents Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis; our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products, which can fluctuate significantly from period to period; our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; our ability to manage and control our operating expenses, including overhead expenses; our returns on invested assets, including the impact of credit losses, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation; our credit and financial strength ratings; our ability to effectively utilize our tax capacity; our returns on proprietary investments we make; and our ability to manage risk and exposures, including the degree to which, and the effectiveness of, hedging these risks and exposures. In addition, factors such as credit and real estate market conditions, regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange rates, market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. See Risk Factors for a discussion of risks that have affected and may affect in the future our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Executive Summary Prudential Financial, a financial services leader with approximately $667 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2009, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. 73 Table of Contents Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through one of the largest distribution networks in the financial services industry. Current Developments The global financial markets have shown marked improvement after experiencing extreme stress since the second half of 2007 through the early portion of 2009. During this period, volatility and disruption in the global financial markets reached unprecedented levels for the post World War II period and the availability and cost of credit was materially affected. These factors, combined with recent economic conditions, including depressed home and commercial real estate prices and increasing foreclosures, depressed equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence, and rising unemployment, resulted in a severe economic recession. Certain markets have shown marked improvement since mid 2009. Equity markets have appreciated, with less volatility, and bond spreads have tightened significantly. We took advantage of the improving market conditions, and raised approximately $4.4 billion in the capital markets during 2009 through the following: Issued 36.9 million shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock in a public offering (at a price of $39.00 per share) for net proceeds of $1.391 billion. Issued $2.5 billion of Prudential Financial medium term notes. In January 2010, we issued an additional $1.250 billion of Prudential Financial medium term notes. Issued $500 million of Prudential Insurance surplus notes, exchangeable for Prudential Financial Common Stock. On December 31, 2009, we received $4.5 billion of proceeds in cash from Wells Fargo upon the completion of the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. In addition, we received $418 million in payment of the principal of and accrued interest on the subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $417 million that had been issued by Wachovia Securities in connection with the establishment of the joint venture. As the dislocation in the markets continued, we took certain other actions during 2009 to strengthen our liquidity and capital position, including the following: Made capital contributions and capital loans to our international insurance operations in Japan totaling $366 million. Borrowed $1.5 billion in the form of collateralized funding agreements from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, which was subsequently used to replace inter company funding agreements between Prudential Insurance and Prudential Financial, previously funded through proceeds from the sale of Prudential Financials retail medium term notes, making the corresponding proceeds available for general corporate purposes. Reduced exposure to short term financing markets, primarily through reduction in commercial paper borrowings. Undertook sales of assets held by some of our affiliates to reduce their borrowing needs. While the above actions have strengthened our liquidity and capital position, certain of them, as well as our decision to maintain higher levels of cash and short term investments than in prior periods, have had a negative impact on current earnings. For additional information on our liquidity and capital resources, and the actions we undertook in 2009, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. We continue to monitor the liquidity and capital needs of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. If the recent improvements in the capital markets prove temporary and earlier disruptions in the capital markets were to resume, we may take additional capital management actions to maintain capital consistent with our rating objectives, which may include additional internal actions or, if internal resources are insufficient or market conditions deteriorate, further access to external sources of capital, if available. 74 Table of Contents During 2009, rating agencies downgraded certain ratings of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. Downgrades in our claims paying or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and or capital. See Ratings for more information. Our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect the following: Net income of our Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $3.411 billion, reflecting a $1.457 billion after tax gain from the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, as well as the positive impact of improved financial market conditions beginning in late second quarter of 2009. Pre tax net realized investment losses and related adjustments of the Financial Services Businesses in 2009 were $1.651 billion, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities of $1.563 billion. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $998 million as of December 31, 2009, compared to net unrealized losses of $6.567 billion as of December 31, 2008. Gross unrealized gains increased from $4.684 billion as of December 31, 2008 to $5.387 billion as of December 31, 2009 and gross unrealized losses decreased from $11.251 billion to $4.389 billion for the same periods as credit spreads tightened across most asset classes, partially offset by an increase in risk free rates. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Closed Block Business amounted to $7 million as of December 31, 2009, compared to net unrealized losses of $4.035 billion as of December 31, 2008. Individual Annuity gross sales in 2009 reached a record high of $16.3 billion, an increase from $10.3 billion in the prior year. Individual Annuity net sales in 2009 were $10.3 billion, an increase from $2.1 billion in the prior year. Full Service Retirement gross deposits and sales were $23.2 billion and net additions were $8.8 billion in 2009, an increase from gross deposits and sales of $18.9 billion and net additions of $3.9 billion in the prior year. We also continued to have positive net flows in our asset management business, as well as solid sales in our domestic and international insurance businesses, in 2009. For 2009, our International Insurance segment had a record level of adjusted operating income. As of December 31, 2009, Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, had cash and short term investments of $3.830 billion. On November 10, 2009, Prudential Financial declared an annual dividend for 2009 of $0.70 per share of Common Stock, reflecting an increase of approximately 21% from the 2008 Common Stock dividend. Outlook Management expects that the recovery of the economy and global markets will remain challenging in 2010 but that results will reflect the quality of our individual businesses and their prospects, as well as our overall business mix. In 2010, we continue to focus on long term strategic positioning and growth opportunities, including the following: U.S. Retirement and Investment Management Market. We look to capitalize on the growing need of baby boomers for products that provide guaranteed income for longer retirement periods. In addition, we continue to focus on our clients increasing needs for retirement income security given the recent volatility in the financial markets. We also look to provide products that respond to the needs of plan sponsors to manage risk and stretch their benefit dollars. 75 Table of Contents U.S. Insurance Market. We continue to focus on writing high quality business and expect to continue to benefit from expansion of our distribution channels and deepening our relationships with third party distributors. We also look to capitalize on opportunities for additional optional life purchases in the group insurance market, as institutional clients are focused on stretching their benefit dollars. International Markets. We continue to concentrate on deepening our presence in the markets in which we currently operate, such as Japan, and expanding our distribution channels. We look to capitalize on opportunities arising in international markets as changing demographics and public policy have resulted in a growing demand for retirement income products similar to those offered in the U.S. Results of Operations We analyze performance of the segments and Corporate and Other operations of the Financial Services Businesses using a measure called adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations for a definition of adjusted operating income and a discussion of its use as a measure of segment operating performance. Shown below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to our adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments and Corporate and Other operations to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses: Individual Annuities $ 703 $ (1,077 ) $ 722 Retirement 510 531 482 Asset Management 55 232 701 Individual Life 562 446 622 Group Insurance 331 340 286 International Insurance 1,843 1,747 1,598 International Investments 43 (332 ) 256 Corporate and Other (728 ) (397 ) (132 ) Reconciling Items: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (1,651 ) (2,267 ) (41 ) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (88 ) 45 (52 ) Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net 1,601 (1,734 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (899 ) 1,163 13 Divested businesses 2,131 (506 ) 274 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (2,364 ) 654 (336 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 2,049 (1,155 ) 4,393 Income from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business (480 ) 16 290 Consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 1,569 $ (1,139 ) $ 4,683 Results for 2009 presented above reflect the following: Individual Annuities segment results for 2009 increased in comparison to 2008 primarily reflecting the impact of improved market conditions. Included in the increase was a favorable variance of $1,713 million related to adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, largely reflecting improved financial market conditions in 2009. The increase also included a $974 million favorable variance related to the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, including changes in our market perceived non performance risk. This variance resulted in a corresponding $661 million increase in the amortization 76 Table of Contents of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. These favorable variances were partially offset by mark to market losses of $180 million in 2009 related to derivative positions associated with our capital hedging program, which we began in the second quarter of 2009. Results were also favorably impacted by an increase in investment results, driven by higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account, partially offset by a decrease in fee income, due to transfers of separate account funds to fixed income investments backed by our general account relating to our automatic rebalancing element. Retirement segment results for both 2009 and 2008 include the impact of our annual review of the assumptions and other cumulative adjustments relating to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired. Absent the $39 million unfavorable impact of these items, results for 2009 increased $18 million in comparison to 2008, primarily driven by improved investment results in our full service and institutional investments products businesses, as well as a favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts. A lower benefit from reserve refinements, primarily related to updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, and a decline in asset based fees in our full service business were partial offsets. Asset Management segment results declined in 2009 largely due to unfavorable results from the segments commercial mortgage activities reflecting higher credit and valuation related charges on interim loans, as well as lower transaction and performance based incentive fees, and asset management fees. These items were partially offset by a reduction in losses from the segments proprietary investing activities. Individual Life segment results for 2009 improved from 2008, primarily reflecting lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, to reflect the impact of changes to the estimate of total gross profits primarily due to favorable variable product separate account fund performance in 2009 and unfavorable performance in 2008, as well as a lower than expected level of death claim costs in 2009. Results for both periods also benefited from reductions in amortization of net deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on annual reviews. The benefit in 2009 was $55 million, which included an increase in reserves for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain contracts. The comparable benefit for 2008 was $79 million. Results for both periods also benefited from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, which benefited the current year $30 million and the prior year $53 million. Group Insurance segment results declined in 2009, reflecting the prior year benefits of a premium adjustment for updated data on a large case and annual reserve refinements. Excluding these benefits in the prior year, the segment results for 2009 improved from 2008, primarily reflecting growth in both our group life and group disability businesses. International Insurance segment results for 2009 improved from 2008. Results from the segments Life Planner operations improved in 2009, reflecting the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations and more favorable mortality experience. Results from the segments Gibraltar Life operation were unchanged from 2009 to 2008. Results in 2009 include $36 million of earnings from the acquired former business of Yamato Life. The earnings from the acquired business include approximately $19 million largely related to initial surrenders of policies following the restructuring of the business, essentially consistent with our overall expectations. Results for 2009 for the Gibraltar Life operations also reflect higher general and administrative expenses including costs of an ongoing technology improvement program. International Investments segment results for 2009 improved from 2008 primarily due to impairment charges of $426 million in 2008 related to operating joint ventures and goodwill, partially offset by less favorable results from the segments global commodities group. Corporate and Other operations resulted in an increased loss for 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to lower investment income, net of interest expense, reflecting the initial investment of debt issuance proceeds in cash and short term investments, as well as increased interest expense on capital debt. In addition, 2009 results reflect a higher level of expenses. The inclusion of a charge in 2008 for goodwill impairment of $117 million associated with our real estate and relocation services business was a partial offset. 77 Table of Contents Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments for the Financial Services Businesses in 2009 amounted to a loss of $1.651 billion, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities of $1.563 billion. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes in the Closed Block Business decreased $496 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting net realized investment losses in 2009, compared to gains in 2008, as well as a decrease in net investment income, which were partially offset by a decrease in dividends to policyholders, including the decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense. Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. These costs primarily include commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses that are incurred in producing new business. We amortize these deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, over the expected lives of the contracts, based on our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums, depending on the type of contract. As described in more detail below, in calculating DAC amortization we are required to make assumptions about investment returns, mortality and other items that impact our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums. As of December 31, 2009, DAC in our Financial Services Businesses was $13.751 billion and DAC in our Closed Block Business was $827 million. DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block Business is amortized over the expected lives of those contracts in proportion to estimated gross margins. Gross margins consider premiums, investment returns, benefit claims, costs for policy administration, changes in reserves, and dividends to policyholders. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. We also ensure the recoverability of the DAC balance at the end of each reporting period. Many of the factors that affect gross margins are included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders. In recent years, DAC adjustments generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since the Closed Block had recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in Policyholders dividends, for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, as of December 31, 2009, actual cumulative earnings are below expected cumulative earnings by $601 million, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense. Without the benefit of the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation, changes in gross margins and DAC amortization could result in greater volatility in our results of operations. DAC associated with the non participating whole life and term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the non participating whole life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Insurance segment is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. We evaluate the recoverability of our DAC related to these policies as part of our premium deficiency testing. If a premium deficiency exists, we reduce DAC by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than the 78 Table of Contents DAC balance, we then increase the reserve for future policy benefits by the excess, by means of a charge to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect significant deterioration in future experience, and therefore do not expect significant writedowns to the related DAC. DAC associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities and International Insurance segments is amortized over the expected life of these policies in proportion to gross profits. In calculating gross profits, we consider mortality, persistency, and other elements as well as rates of return on investments associated with these contracts and the cost of contract minimum guarantees net of, where applicable, the impact of our own risk of non performance and certain hedging activities related to these guarantees. The impact of our capital hedging program, which we began in the second quarter of 2009, is not considered in calculating gross profits. We regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of our actual gross profits and changes in our assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. Adjustments to the DAC balance include our quarterly adjustments for current period experience and market performance related adjustments, as discussed below, and the impact of the annual reviews of our estimate of total gross profits. We also perform recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure the DAC balance does not exceed the present value of estimated gross profits. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. Total estimated gross profits include both actual experience and estimates of gross profits for future periods. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods costs, referred to as an adjustment for current period experience. For the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent our expected claims experience over the life of these policies and are developed based on Company experience. We review and update our mortality assumptions annually. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the Individual Life segment. For the variable and universal life policies in our International Insurance segment, mortality assumptions impact to a lesser extent our estimates of future gross profits due to differences in policyholder demographics, the overall age of this block of business, the amount of mortality margins and our actual mortality experience. The DAC balance associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2009 was $2.8 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our mortality assumptions on the DAC balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC, and does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the unearned revenue reserve, which would partially offset the adjustments to the DAC balance reflected below. December 31, 2009 Increase/(Reduction) in DAC (in millions) Decrease in future mortality by 1% $ 40 Increase in future mortality by 1% $ (40 ) For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life. For variable annuity contracts, DAC is more sensitive to the effects of changes in our estimates of gross profits due primarily to the significant portion of our gross profits that is dependent upon the total rate of return 79 Table of Contents on assets held in separate account investment options, and the shorter average life of the contracts. This rate of return influences the fees we earn, costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts, as well as other sources of profit. This is also true, to a lesser degree, for our variable life policies. Returns that are higher than our expectations for a given period produce higher than expected account balances, which increase the fees we earn and decrease the costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts, resulting in higher expected future gross profits and lower DAC amortization for the period. The opposite occurs when returns are lower than our expectations. The near term future rate of return assumptions used in evaluating DAC for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance products are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. If the projected future rate of return over the four year period is greater than our maximum future rate of return, we use our maximum future rate of return. As of December 31, 2009, our long term expected rates of return across all asset types for variable annuities products and variable life policies range from 7.7% to 8.1% per annum, depending on the specific block of business, and reflect, among other assumptions, an expected rate of return of 9.5% per annum for equity type assets. Unless there is a sustained interim deviation, our long term expected rate of return assumptions generally are not impacted by short term market fluctuations. As of December 31, 2009, our near term maximum future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach for variable annuities products and variable life policies was 9.7% and 10.1% per annum, respectively. Included in this blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 13% per annum maximum rate of return on equity investments. In the fourth quarter of 2008 we determined that adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and any corresponding changes to the projected future rate of return assumptions for our variable annuity contracts should no longer be dependent on a comparison to a statistically generated range of estimated gross profits. Instead, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the projected future rate of return and our estimate of total gross profits are updated each quarter to reflect the result of the reversion to the mean approach. These market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits result in cumulative adjustments to prior amortization, reflecting the application of the new required rate of amortization to all prior periods gross profits. The new required rate of amortization is also applied prospectively to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods. For variable annuities products and variable life policies, as of December 31, 2009, our expected rate of return for the next four years across all asset types is 8.0% and 10.1% per annum, respectively. These rates represent a weighted average of our expected rates of return across all contract groups. For most contract groups, our expected rate of return for the next four years equals our current maximum future rates of return, as the near term projected future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach is greater than our maximum future rate of return. For certain contract groups relating to variable annuities issued in 2009, the expected rate of return over the next four years is under 8.0% per annum, reflecting the impact of more favorable markets in 2009 and the reversion to the mean approach. The DAC balance associated with our domestic variable annuity contracts was $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2009. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to the DAC balance that would be required assuming both an increase and decrease in our future rate of return by 100 basis points. The sensitivity includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on the DAC balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC. Further, this information does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of our variable annuity products, or the impact that changes in such reserves may have on the DAC balance. December 31, 2009 Increase/(Reduction) in DAC (in millions) Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (44 ) Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 43 80 Table of Contents For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Deferred Sales Inducements and Valuation of Business Acquired In addition to DAC, we also recognize assets for deferred sales inducements and valuation of business acquired, or VOBA. The deferred sales inducements are recognized primarily in our Individual Annuities segment and are amortized over the anticipated life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs. For additional information about our deferred sales inducements, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. VOBA represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired businesses, and is determined by estimating the net present value of future cash flows from the contracts in force at the date of acquisition. We have established a VOBA asset primarily for our acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. VOBA is amortized over the effective life of the acquired contracts. For additional information about VOBA including details on items included in our estimates of future cash flows for the various acquired businesses and its bases for amortization, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred sales inducements and VOBA are also subject to recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the capitalized amounts do not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits. Based on this recoverability testing, in 2009 we impaired the entire remaining VOBA asset related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. For additional information regarding this charge, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The test is performed at the reporting unit level which is equal to or one level below our operating segments. Reporting units that had goodwill subject to testing as of December 31, 2009 were the Asset Management segment, the International Insurance segments Life Planners business and the Retirement segments Full Service business. As required by accounting guidance, the impairment testing process consists of two steps. Step 1 requires that the fair value of the reporting unit be calculated and compared to the reporting units carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, it is concluded there is no impairment and the analysis is complete. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, Step 2 of the process is completed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. Step 2 utilizes business combination purchase accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment loss, if any. The fair value of reporting units calculated in Step 1 was determined using either an earnings multiple approach or a discounted cash flow approach. The earnings multiple approach was the primary approach for the Asset Management and International Insurance reporting units, the discounted cash flow approach was primarily utilized by the Retirement reporting unit. Earnings multiples used ranged from 8.6 to 15.0 times earnings while the discount rate used was 12%. The earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. Each comparable company is analyzed based on various factors, including, but not limited to, financial risk, size, geographic diversification, profitability, adequate financial data, and an actively traded stock price. A multiple of price to earnings is developed for the comparable 81 Table of Contents companies using independent analysts consensus estimates for each companys 2010 forecasted earnings. The multiple is then applied to the 2010 forecasted earnings of the reporting unit to develop a value. A control premium is then added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit. The discounted cash flow approach calculates the value of a business by applying a discount rate reflecting the market expected weighted average rate of return to the projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. The weighted average rate of return, or WARR, represents the required rate of return on total capitalization. It is comprised of a required rate of return on equity of a company and the current tax affected cost of debt, which are then weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt in the capital structure. To estimate the return on equity, we applied the Capital Asset Pricing Model, or CAPM. The CAPM is a generally accepted method for estimating an equity investors return requirement, and hence a companys cost of equity capital. CAPM is determined by beginning with the long term risk free rate of return then applying adjustments that consider the equity risk premium required for large company common stock investments as well as company specific adjustments to address volatility, small company premiums and other risks particular to a specific company. The WARR calculation is applied to a group of companies considered peers of the reporting unit to develop a weighted average rate of return for the peer group which is then used to estimate the market expected weighted average rate of return for the reporting unit. After completion of Step 1 of the analysis, it was determined that fair value exceeded the carrying value for each of the three reporting units and it was concluded there was no impairment as of December 31, 2009. The Asset Management and International Insurance Life Planner businesses had estimated fair values that exceeded their December 31, 2009 carrying values by 448% and 74%, respectively. The fair value of the Retirement Full Service business, which was calculated based upon application of the discounted cash flow approach utilizing a discount rate of 12%, exceeded the carrying value by 18%. A decline in forecasted cash flows of 15%, or an increase in the discount rate above 13.7%, could result in the Retirement business failing Step 1 and requiring a Step 2 assessment. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total goodwill balance of $709 million, including $444 million related to our Retirement reporting unit, $242 million related to our Asset Management reporting unit, and $23 million related to our International Insurance reporting unit. Further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. During the first quarter of 2009, we concluded that due to the severe economic conditions, a triggering event existed in our Retirement segment. The Company evaluated the goodwill of the Retirement segments Full Service business for potential impairment as of March 31, 2009 and determined that a goodwill impairment did not exist, as the fair value of the business, which was calculated by applying a discounted cash flow analysis to its expected future earnings, was greater than its carrying value. The carrying value of the Retirement segments Full Service business goodwill was $444 million as of March 31, 2009. During 2008, we recorded a total impairment charge for goodwill of $337 million, which was included in General and administrative expenses. These impairments reflected the deterioration of financial conditions in 2008 and the impact of this deterioration on expected future earnings of these businesses, including: (1) for our Individual Annuities reporting unit, equity market declines and resulting additional market depreciation within separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our anticipated future fee income; (2) for our International Investments reporting unit, significant market deterioration resulting in both a reduction in value and an outflow of assets under management which contributed to lower asset management fees earned in the fourth quarter of 2008 and expected in future periods and (3) for our Prudential Real Estate and Relocation reporting unit, further deterioration of the U.S. housing market, including the number of transactions and the national average home sale price which both declined in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the impact of this decline on future anticipated revenues of this business. Valuation of Investments, Including Derivatives, and the Recognition of Other than Temporary Impairments Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities, other invested assets, and derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the values of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments we generally use include swaps, futures, forwards 82 Table of Contents and options and may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market. We are also party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. Management believes the following accounting policies related to investments, including derivatives, are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Each of these policies is discussed further within other relevant disclosures related to the investments and derivatives, as referenced below. Valuation of investments, including derivatives Recognition of other than temporary impairments Determination of the valuation allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans We present our investments classified as available for sale, including fixed maturity and equity securities, our investments classified as trading, such as our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, our derivatives, and our embedded derivatives at fair value in the statements of financial position. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments, embedded derivatives and other investments, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. In addition, investments classified as available for sale, as well as those classified as held to maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other than temporary. For a discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities. Commercial mortgage and other loans are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. For a discussion of our policies regarding the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. For a discussion of our investment portfolio, including the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2009, related to the fixed maturity and equity securities of our general account, and the carrying value, credit quality, and allowance for losses related to the commercial mortgage and other loans of our general account, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments. For a discussion of the effects of impairments and changes to the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Policyholder Liabilities Future Policy Benefit Reserves, other than Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses We establish reserves for future policy benefits to or on behalf of policyholders in the same period in which the policy is issued. These reserves relate primarily to the traditional participating whole life policies of our Closed Block Business and the non participating whole life, term life, and life contingent structured settlement and group annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, which as of December 31, 2009, represented 42% of our total future policy benefit reserves 83 Table of Contents are determined using the net level premium method as prescribed by U.S. GAAP. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both the expected future benefit payments and the expected future premiums. The mortality assumptions used are based on data from the standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used are the contractually guaranteed interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policy. Gains or losses in our results of operations resulting from deviations in actual experience compared to the experience assumed in establishing our reserves for this business are recognized in the determination of our annual dividends to these policyholders. In recent years, these gains or losses generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since the Closed Block had recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in Policyholders dividends, for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, as of December 31, 2009, actual cumulative earnings are below expected cumulative earnings by $601 million, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense. Without the benefit of the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation, these gains or losses could result in greater volatility in our results of operations. The future policy benefit reserves for our International Insurance segment and Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2009, represented 43% of our total future policy benefit reserves combined, relate primarily to non participating whole life and term life products and are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as the present value of expected future benefits to or on behalf of policyholders plus the present value of future maintenance expenses less the present value of future net premiums. The expected future benefits and expenses are determined using assumptions as to mortality, lapse, and maintenance expense. Reserve assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the policy is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these best estimate assumptions are greater than the net U.S. GAAP liabilities (i.e., reserves net of any DAC asset), the existing net U.S. GAAP liabilities are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Mortality assumptions are generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables, as applicable; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. We review our mortality assumptions annually. Generally, we do not expect our mortality trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2009 represented 11% of our total future policy benefit reserves, relate to our non participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products. These reserves are generally determined as the present value of expected future benefits and expenses based on assumptions as to mortality, retirement, maintenance expense, and interest rates. Reserves are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the contract is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency testing by product group using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Our mortality and retirement assumptions are based on Company or industry experience; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. We generally review our mortality and retirement assumptions annually. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality or retirement trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The remaining 4% of the reserves for future policy benefits as of December 31, 2009 represented reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment, and group life and disability and long term care benefits in our Group Insurance segment. The optional living benefits are primarily accounted for as embedded derivatives, with fair values calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of 84 Table of Contents assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. In establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to variable annuity policies, we must make estimates and assumptions about the timing of annuitization, contract lapses and contractholder mortality, as well as interest rates and equity market returns. Assumptions relating to contractholder behavior, such as the timing of annuitization and contract lapses, are based on our experience by contract group, and vary by product type and year of issuance. Our dynamic lapse rate assumption applies a different lapse rate on a contract by contract basis based on a comparison of the guaranteed minimum death or income benefit and the current policyholder account value as well as other factors such as the applicability of any surrender charges. In the money contracts are those with a guaranteed minimum benefit in excess of the current policyholder account value. Since in the money contracts are less likely to lapse, we apply a lower lapse rate assumption to these contracts. As an example, the lapse rate assumptions for contracts that are not in the money and are out of their surrender charge period average between 8% and 20% per year. This lapse rate assumption would be reduced for similar in the money contracts, based on the extent of the excess described above and the age of the contract. Mortality assumptions are generally based on our historical experience or standard industry tables, and also vary by contract group. Unless a material change in behavior or mortality experience is observed in an interim period, we generally update assumptions related to contract holder behavior and mortality in the third quarter of each year by considering the actual results that have occurred during the period from the most recent update to the expected amounts. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality trends to change significantly in the short term, and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The future rate of return assumptions used in establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to variable annuities products are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. For additional information regarding our future expected rate of return assumptions and our reversion to the mean approach see, Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of the reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to variable annuity policies relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to these reserves that would be required assuming both a 100 basis point increase and decrease in our future rate of return. The sensitivity includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on operating results due to the change in the reserve balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of the reserves, or any changes on DAC or other balances. December 31, 2009 Increase/(Reduction) inGMDB/GMIB Reserves (in millions) Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 87 Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (76 ) For a discussion of adjustments to the reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses Our liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2009 is reported as a component of Future policy benefits and relates primarily to the group long term disability products of our Group Insurance segment. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. We do not establish loss liabilities until a loss has occurred. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, our liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. 85 Table of Contents Expected future claims payments are estimated using assumed mortality and claim termination factors and an assumed interest rate. The mortality and claim termination factors are based on standard industry tables and the Companys historical experience. Our interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Of these assumptions, our claim termination assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our level of liability. We review our claim termination assumptions compared to actual terminations annually. These studies review actual claim termination experience over a number of years with more weight placed on the actual experience in the more recent years. If actual experience results in a different assumption, we adjust our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses accordingly with a charge or credit to current period earnings. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions, and to a lesser extent our discount rate assumptions, have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long term rate of return for 2009 was 7.50% for our pension plans and 8.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2008, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long term rate of return. For the year ended December 31, 2009 Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic OtherPostretirement Cost (in millions) Increase in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ (96 ) $ (11 ) Decrease in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ 96 $ 11 We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the methodology we employ to determine our discount rate. Our assumed discount rate for 2009 was 6.00% for our pension plans and 6.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pensions and postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2008, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. For the year ended December 31, 2009 Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) inNet Periodic OtherPostretirement Cost (in millions) Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points $ (4 ) $ (5 ) Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points $ 7 $ 2 86 Table of Contents Given the application of the authoritative guidance for accounting for pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points would not be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points. For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2010 see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Corporate and Other. In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans. Taxes on Income Our effective tax rate is based on income, non taxable and non deductible items, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times from the items reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized in our financial statements. The application of U.S. GAAP requires us to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce our deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance we consider many factors, including: (1) the nature of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; (2) whether they are ordinary or capital; (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal; (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions; (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the deferred tax assets; and (7) any tax planning strategies that we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. Our accounting represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings and completion of tax audits could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate. For example, the dividends received deduction, or DRD, reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. On February 1, 2010, the Obama Administration released the General Explanations of the Administrations Revenue Proposals. Although the Administration has not released proposed statutory language, one proposal would change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulation or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. 87 Table of Contents On January 1, 2007, we adopted the revised authoritative guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on tax returns. The application of this guidance is a two step process, the first step being recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. We measure the tax position as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. This measurement considers the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement using the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by one percent of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our consolidated loss from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2009 of $16 million. Our liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties which relate to tax years still subject to review by the IRS or other taxing authorities. Audit periods remain open for review until the statute of limitations has passed. Generally, for tax years which produce net operating losses, capital losses or tax credit carryforwards, or tax attributes, the statute of limitations does not close, to the extent of these tax attributes, until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year in which they are fully utilized. The completion of review or the expiration of the statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to our liability for income taxes. The statute of limitations for the 2002 tax year expired on April 30, 2009. The statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year expired on July 31, 2009. The statute of limitations for the 2004 and 2005 tax years is set to expire in June 2010, unless extended. Tax years 2006 through 2008 are still open for IRS examination. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact in 2009 of changes to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has expired. We do not anticipate any significant changes within the next 12 months to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired. In addition, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of the status of our tax audits, including those of our international affiliates that file separate tax returns and are subject to the audits of the local taxing authority. Reserves for Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Accounting Pronouncements Adopted See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements, including the adoption of revised authoritative guidance for disclosing fair value of financial instruments, the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments, fair value measurements and disclosures, the accounting for convertible debt instruments, earnings per share, and the accounting for noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements, and disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 88 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for the periods presented. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Financial Services Businesses by segment: Individual Annuities $ 621 $ (1,218 ) $ 672 Retirement 376 (1,109 ) 364 Asset Management 9 300 783 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division 1,006 (2,027 ) 1,819 Individual Life 696 (173 ) 548 Group Insurance 97 138 247 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division 793 (35 ) 795 International Insurance 1,111 1,923 1,905 International Investments (40 ) 247 Total International Insurance and Investments Division 1,111 1,883 2,152 Corporate and Other (861 ) (976 ) (373 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 2,049 (1,155 ) 4,393 Income tax expense (benefit) 214 (480 ) 1,120 Income (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 1,835 (675 ) 3,273 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes 1,523 (447 ) 246 Income (loss) from continuing operations for Financial Services Businesses 3,358 (1,122 ) 3,519 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 19 18 18 Net income (loss) Financial Services Businesses 3,377 (1,104 ) 3,537 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (34 ) 36 67 Net income (loss) of Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ 3,411 $ (1,140 ) $ 3,470 Basic income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 7.64 $ (2.57 ) $ 7.57 Diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 7.59 $ (2.57 ) $ 7.47 Basic net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 7.68 $ (2.53 ) $ 7.61 Diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 7.63 $ (2.53 ) $ 7.51 Closed Block Business: Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business $ (480 ) $ 16 $ 290 Income tax expense (benefit) (193 ) (7 ) 100 Income (loss) from continuing operations for Closed Block Business (287 ) 23 190 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 2 Net income (loss) Closed Block Business (287 ) 23 192 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income (loss) of Closed Block Business attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ (287 ) $ 23 $ 192 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Class B Stock $ (165.00 ) $ (16.00 ) $ 68.50 Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Class B Stock $ (165.00 ) $ (16.00 ) $ 69.50 Consolidated: Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ 3,124 $ (1,117 ) $ 3,662 89 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial Services Businesses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses increased $4.480 billion, from a loss of $1.122 billion in 2008 to income of $3.358 billion in 2009. Results in 2009 include a $1.457 billion after tax gain on the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities to Wells Fargo. Also contributing to the increase in income was a favorable variance related to adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for our variable annuity products, largely reflecting improved market conditions in 2009. In addition, income reflects an increase in other revenues, partially offset by an increase in benefits and expenses, due to changes in value of recorded assets and recorded liabilities that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Results for the current year include a favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity products. This variance was largely driven by changes in our adjustment to the embedded derivative liabilities for market perceived non performance risk, and resulted in a related increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Income also includes a net increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, largely offset by an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, reflecting business growth, as well as the impact of currency fluctuations, in our International Insurance operations. On a diluted per share basis, income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $7.59 per share of Common Stock increased from a loss of $(2.57) per share of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2008. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using adjusted operating income as described in Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses, below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments, below. The direct equity adjustment increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As described more fully in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. The holders of the Common Stock will benefit from the direct equity adjustment as long as reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business are less than the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Generally, as statutory cash premiums and policies in force in the Closed Block Business decline, we expect the benefit to the Common Stock holders from the direct equity adjustment to decline accordingly. If the reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business exceed the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement, the direct equity adjustment will reduce income available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses decreased $4.641 billion, from income of $3.519 billion in 2007 to a loss of $1.122 billion in 2008, reflecting the impact of unfavorable market conditions on the results of our segments and investment portfolio. The decrease reflects pre tax net investment losses in 2008, within both our general account and proprietary investments, and impairments in 2008 related to goodwill and declines in value of investments in certain operating joint ventures. In addition, the decrease reflects reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting an update of actuarial assumptions primarily due to the impact of market conditions. Results for 2008 include our share of costs associated with a settlement relating to auction rate securities of the retail brokerage joint venture with Wachovia, which was sold on December 31, 2009. Partially offsetting these items were improved results from continued growth in our international insurance operations. On a diluted per share basis, income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $(2.57) per share of Common Stock compared to $7.47 per share of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2007. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using adjusted operating income as described in 90 Table of Contents Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses, below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments, below. The direct equity adjustment, as described above, increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Results of Operations Closed Block Business 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2009, was a loss of $287 million, or $(165.00) per share of Class B Stock, compared to income of $23 million, or $(16.00) per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2008, was income of $23 million, or $(16.00) per share of Class B stock, compared to income of $190 million, or $68.50 per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2007. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. Segment Measures In managing our business, we analyze operating performance separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments operating performance using adjusted operating income. Results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted operating income does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures or net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with authoritative guidance, is our measure of segment performance. The adjustments to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating income. 91 Table of Contents Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Annuities segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 2,871 $ 1,999 $ 2,503 Benefits and expenses 2,168 3,076 1,781 Adjusted operating income 703 (1,077 ) 722 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 61 (153 ) (62 ) Related charges(1)(2) (143 ) 12 12 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 621 $ (1,218 ) $ 672 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $1,780 million, from a loss of $1,077 million in 2008 to income of $703 million in 2009. As shown in the following table, adjusted operating income for 2009 included $379 million of benefits related to adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, compared to $1,334 million of charges included in 2008, resulting in a $1,713 million favorable variance. Year ended December 31, 2009 Year ended December 31, 2008 Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB /GMIB(2) Total Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB /GMIB(2) Total (in millions) Quarterly market performance adjustment(3) $ 54 $ 277 $ 331 $ (576 ) $ (484 ) $ (1,060 ) Annual review / assumption updates (30 ) (19 ) (49 ) 18 (118 ) (100 ) Quarterly adjustment for current period experience 63 34 97 (81 ) (93 ) (174 ) Total $ 87 $ 292 $ 379 $ (639 ) $ (695 ) $ (1,334 ) (1) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for (increases) or decreases, respectively, in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition, or DAC, and other costs. (2) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for reserve (increases) or decreases, respectively, related to the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit, or GMDB / GMIB, features of our variable annuity products. (3) As discussed below, market performance related adjustments were recognized quarterly beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. Amounts for 2008 include adjustment recognized as part of our annual reviews in the third quarter of 2008. These adjustments primarily reflect the market conditions that existed in the respective periods, and the estimated impact of those market conditions on contractholder behavior, and are discussed individually in more detail below. Also included within the increase in adjusted operating income is a $974 million favorable variance 92 Table of Contents in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, including changes in our market perceived non performance risk as discussed below. A corresponding increase in current period gross profits related to this favorable variance led to an offsetting increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs of $661 million. Partially offsetting these increases was $180 million of mark to market losses related to derivative positions associated with our capital hedging program, which we began in the second quarter of 2009, also discussed below. Also serving as a partial offset was a decrease in fee income, driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The declines in average separate account assets were due to market depreciation and transfers of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account. The transfer of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account relates to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our optional living benefit features, which, as part of the overall product design, transferred approximately $10.5 billion out of the separate accounts and into fixed income investments backed by our general account from January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009, due to equity market declines. Subsequently, in the remainder of 2009, approximately $3.5 billion was returned from fixed income investments backed by our general account to the separate accounts by operation of the automatic rebalancing element due to market improvements. Higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account resulting from these transfers also led to improved investment results, which more than offset the decrease in fee income. The $331 million of benefits in 2009 relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments shown in the table above are attributable to changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance in 2009. The following table shows the actual quarterly rate of return on variable annuity account values for each of the quarters in 2009 compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return used in our estimate of total gross profits. First Quarter2009 Second Quarter2009 Third Quarter2009 Fourth Quarter2009 Actual rate of return (4.5 )% 12.7 % 10.6 % 3.0 % Expected rate of return 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.4 % 2.1 % The overall better than expected market returns in 2009 increased our estimates of total gross profits and decreased our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, by establishing a new, higher starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating those items for future periods. The previously expected rates of return for 2009, for most contract groups, was based upon our maximum future rate of return assumption under the reversion to the mean approach, as discussed below. The increase in our estimate of total gross profits and decrease in our estimate of future expected claims costs results in a lower required rate of amortization and lower required reserve provisions, which are applied to all prior periods. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization and reserve provisions are recognized in the current period. In addition, the lower rate of amortization and reserve provisions will also be applied in calculating amortization and the provision for reserves in future periods. The $1,060 million charge in 2008 is attributable to a similar but opposite impact on gross profits of market value decreases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, reflecting financial market conditions during the period. Included within the $576 million of increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2008 is a $234 million loss recognition charge to further reduce the balance of valuation of business acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required in 2008 as the VOBA balance for those contracts otherwise would have been in excess of the present value of estimated future gross profits. In addition, the $54 million decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2009 is net of a $73 million charge to impair the entire remaining VOBA balance related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required in the first quarter of 2009, as the declines in estimated future gross profits related to market performance caused the present value of estimated gross profits for these contracts to fall below zero. Since the VOBA balance was completely impaired for these contracts, it cannot be reestablished for market value appreciation in subsequent periods. As shown in the table above, results for both periods include the impact of the annual reviews of the assumptions used in the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy 93 Table of Contents acquisition and other costs. The year ended December 31, 2009 included $49 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in the future rate of return assumptions applied to the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. Partially offsetting the impact of the updated future rate of return assumptions were benefits related to the impact of lower mortality and higher investment spread assumptions. Adjusted operating income for 2008 included $100 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily reflecting increased cost of expected income and death benefit claims due to lower expected lapse rates for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. As mentioned above, we derive our near term future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. However, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through 2009, the projected future annual rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for most contract groups was greater than our maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. In those cases, we utilize the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean on our estimate of total gross profits. As discussed above, the near term maximum future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach was reduced in 2009 from 10.5% to 9.7% as part of our annual reviews. Included in this revised blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments. Further or continued market volatility could result in additional market value changes within our separate account assets and corresponding changes to our gross profits, as well as additional adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Given that the estimates of future gross profits are based upon our maximum future rate of return assumption for most contract groups, all else being equal, future rates of return higher or lower than 2.4% per quarter, or 9.7% per annum, will result in decreases or increases in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Including the offsetting impact of certain contract groups relating to business issued in 2009, our weighted average expected rate of return across all contract groups is 8.0% per annum as of December 31, 2009. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience shown in the table above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods amortization, referred to as an adjustment for current period experience, may be required in the current period. This adjustment to previous periods amortization is in addition to the direct impact of actual gross profits on current period amortization and the market performance related adjustment to our estimates of gross profits for future periods. The adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs in 2009 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than expected gross profits, resulting primarily from the favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features and better than expected contract persistency experience. The adjustment for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2009 primarily reflects higher than expected fee income due to market increases, partially offset by higher than expected actual contract guarantee claims costs due to lower than expected lapses. Less favorable than expected gross profits in 2008 were primarily due to lower than expected fee income, the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, and higher actual contract guarantee claims costs in 2008, primarily driven by unfavorable financial market conditions. The $974 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features referred to above reflects a benefit of $536 million in 2009 compared to a charge of $438 million in 2008. The benefit in 2009 includes $202 million of net benefits related to updates of the inputs used in the valuation of the embedded derivative liabilities, including a $312 million benefit related to an update to reflect a market perceived increase in our own risk of non performance. The remaining $110 million of net charges was primarily driven by a reduction in the expected lapse rate assumption based on our actual lapse experience, partially offset by the inclusion of new market inputs for implied volatility 94 Table of Contents as well as updated assumptions for other actuarial and capital markets inputs. In light of recent developments, including rating agency downgrades to the claims paying ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, beginning in the first quarter of 2009, we incorporated an additional spread over LIBOR into the discount rate used in the valuation of the embedded derivative liabilities to reflect an increase in our market perceived non performance risk, thereby reducing the value of the embedded derivative liabilities. The $438 million charge in 2008 included an $86 million benefit related to an update of the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, primarily driven by an update of the equity volatility assumption to better match the actual equity indices referenced. Excluding the $202 million of net benefits related to updates of the inputs used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our living benefit features, the hedging activities resulted in a $334 million benefit in 2009, reflecting a $3,049 million benefit related to the change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives, partially offset by a $2,715 million charge related to the change in the fair value of the related hedge positions. The hedging activities in 2008, excluding similar assumption updates, resulted in a $524 million charge, reflecting a $3,018 million charge related to the change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives, partially offset by a $2,494 million benefit related to the change in the fair value of the related hedge positions. Variances for both periods are primarily driven by differences in the actual performance of the underlying separate account funds relative to the performance of the market indices we utilize as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. Given the sensitivity of the fair value of both the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions to financial market conditions, the variance related to the mark to market of these items for a given period will be largely dependent on the financial market conditions throughout the period. For additional information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with our living benefit features, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. The primary risk exposures of these optional living benefit features relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in their original pricing, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, timing of annuitization and withdrawals, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. Together with certain product design elements, our hedging program is designed to limit our exposure to the equity market, interest rate, and market volatility risk inherent in the living benefit features of certain variable annuity products, as part of our overall risk management strategy. In the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges primarily consist of equity based total return swaps, as well as interest rate derivatives, which are designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. In 2009, favorable market conditions resulted in an overall improvement in our capital position, which was partially offset by $180 million of mark to market losses on the capital hedges. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $1,799 million, from income of $722 million in 2007 to a loss of $1,077 million in 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2008 included charges of $1,160 million, reflecting the impact of the annual reviews of, and market performance adjustment to, the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. The total charge of $1,160 million in 2008 included $380 million of charges from the annual reviews, which were completed in the third quarter of 2008, and $780 million of charges relating to additional market performance adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2007 included $30 million of benefits from the annual reviews. The charges from the annual reviews of $380 million in 2008 included $265 million relating to reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and $115 million related to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. The charge relating to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs primarily reflects the impact on gross profits of market value decreases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. The reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products also reflects this impact, as well as increased cost of expected income and death benefit claims due to lower 95 Table of Contents expected lapse rates for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. Adjusted operating income for 2007 included $30 million of benefits from the annual reviews, reflecting market value increases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, and decreased cost of actual and expected death claims, partially offset by the impact of model refinements and higher expected lapse rates for the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. As discussed above, results for 2008 also include $780 million of charges associated with market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance in the fourth quarter of 2008. In light of recent market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we determined that adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and any corresponding changes to the future rate of return assumptions should no longer be dependent on a comparison to a statistically generated range of estimated gross profits. Instead, for purposes of evaluating deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, total estimated gross profits are updated for these items each quarter. Market value declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 decreased our estimates of total gross profits by establishing a new, lower starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating gross profits for future periods. The decrease in our estimate of total gross profits results in a higher required rate of amortization, which is applied to all prior periods gross profits. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization is recognized in the current period. In addition, the higher rate of amortization will also be applied to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods. As noted above, prior to the fourth quarter of 2008 market performance related adjustments were included as part of our annual reviews. The charges from the annual reviews of $380 million in 2008 included $280 million of adjustments for unfavorable market performance, as discussed above. We continue to derive our future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. However, beginning in the second half of 2008, the projected future rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for most contract groups was greater than 10.5%, our maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types as of December 31, 2008 for this business. In those cases we utilized the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean, and further decreasing our estimate of total gross profits. The above adjustment for market performance included $443 million relating to increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and $337 million relating to reserve increases for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Included within the $443 million of increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs is a $234 million loss recognition charge to further reduce the balance of valuation of business acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required as the VOBA balance for those contracts otherwise would have been in excess of the present value of estimated future gross profits. Absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $609 million from 2007. Contributing to this decrease is a $481 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features. The unfavorable variance in our hedging results reflects a charge of $438 million in 2008 compared to a benefit of $43 million in 2007, and was largely due to unfavorable basis risk, primarily reflecting the underperformance of the underlying separate account funds relative to the performance of the market indices we utilized as a basis for developing our hedging strategy, driven by financial market conditions in 2008. The charge in 2008 includes an $86 million benefit for an update of the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, primarily relating to an update of implied volatility ratios to better match the actual equity indices referenced. Given the sensitivity of the fair value of both the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions to financial market conditions, the variance related to the mark to market of these items for a given period will be largely dependent on the financial market conditions throughout the period. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in fee income, driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The declines in separate account 96 Table of Contents assets were due to market depreciation and transfers of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account. The transfer of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account relates to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features, which, as part of the overall product design, transferred approximately $10 billion in 2008, out of the separate accounts and into fixed income investments backed by our general account due to equity market declines. Higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account resulting from these transfers also led to improved investment results, which partially offset the decrease in fee income. Also serving as a partial offset to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other costs, absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above. The decrease primarily reflects the impact on gross profits of the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features and the decrease in fee income, partially offset by the quarterly adjustments for current period experience, as explained below. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the cumulative impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods costs, referred to as an adjustment for current period experience, may be required. Adjusted operating income for 2008 includes charges of $174 million relating to these quarterly adjustments, due to less favorable than expected experience, while 2007 includes benefits of $53 million due to better than expected experience. The adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs totaled $81 million in 2008 and resulted from less favorable than expected gross profits, due primarily to lower than expected fee income and the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features. In addition to these drivers, the adjustments for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2008, which totaled $93 million, also reflected higher actual contract guarantee claims costs in 2008, primarily driven by financial market conditions. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we impaired the entire $97 million of goodwill related to our acquisition of the variable annuity business of Allstate. This impairment is reflective of continued deterioration of financial market conditions, which resulted in additional market depreciation within our separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our fee income and overall expected future earnings for our individual annuities business. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $872 million, from $1,999 million in 2008 to $2,871 million in 2009. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income increased $669 million, including a $974 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, as discussed above. This favorable variance was partially offset by $180 million of mark to market losses related to derivative positions associated with our capital hedging program, as discussed above, as well as a decrease in fee income driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The decline in average separate account asset balances was due to net market depreciation and the transfer of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our optional living benefit features. In addition, net investment income increased $179 million, reflecting higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account, also resulting from these transfers. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $504 million, from $2,503 million in 2007 to $1,999 million in 2008. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $718 million, including a $481 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features, as discussed above. Also contributing to the decrease in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income is a decrease in fee income 97 Table of Contents driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts due to market depreciation and the transfer of balances to fixed income investments backed by our general account relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features, as discussed above. Partially offsetting this decrease, net investment income increased $220 million reflecting higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account, also resulting from these transfers. Benefits and Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $908 million, from $3,076 million in 2008 to $2,168 million in 2009. Absent the net $1,713 million impact related to the adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the $661 million increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs due to the favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with our living benefit features discussed above, which account for a decrease in benefits and expenses of $1,052 million, benefits and expenses increased $144 million. On this basis, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $130 million primarily reflecting higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account, resulting from transfers relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features, and higher amortization of deferred sales inducements, reflecting the higher rate of amortization applied to gross profits in calculating amortization for 2009, due to the negative market performance adjustments recognized during 2008. Also on this basis, policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $129 million primarily reflecting higher actual and expected contract guarantee claims costs related to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $83 million on this basis, also reflecting the higher rate of amortization for 2009, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a $153 million decrease in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, absent the effect of the items mentioned above, and a $45 million decrease in interest expense. The decrease in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, on this basis, reflects a favorable variance related to the $97 million goodwill impairment recognized in 2008, and lower amortization of VOBA subsequent to the complete impairment in the first quarter of 2009 of balances related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate, as discussed above. The decrease in interest expense reflects paydowns of inter company debt, which were funded with affiliated capital contributions. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $1,295 million, from $1,781 million in 2007 to $3,076 million in 2008. Absent the impact of the annual reviews and the market performance adjustments discussed above, which account for $1,190 million of the increase, benefits and expenses increased $105 million. On this basis, policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $110 million primarily reflecting the impact of the quarterly adjustments for current period experience relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, as discussed above. Also on this basis, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $100 million primarily reflecting higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account resulting from transfers relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our living benefit features. In addition, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, for 2008 includes the $97 million goodwill impairment. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, absent the effect of the annual reviews and market performance adjustments discussed above, primarily reflecting the impact on gross profits of the unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with some of our living benefit features and the decrease in fee income, partially offset by the quarterly adjustments for current period experience relating to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. 98 Table of Contents Account Values The following table sets forth changes in account values for the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value, and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Gross sales do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Variable Annuities(1): Beginning total account value $ 60,007 $ 80,330 $ 74,555 Sales 16,117 10,208 11,678 Surrenders and withdrawals (5,776 ) (8,000 ) (9,568 ) Net sales 10,341 2,208 2,110 Benefit Payments (988 ) (1,057 ) (1,131 ) Net flows 9,353 1,151 979 Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(2) 12,220 (20,353 ) 6,076 Policy charges (1,061 ) (1,121 ) (1,280 ) Ending total account value(3) $ 80,519 $ 60,007 $ 80,330 Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value $ 3,295 $ 3,488 $ 3,748 Sales 179 121 73 Surrenders and withdrawals (258 ) (276 ) (286 ) Net redemptions (79 ) (155 ) (213 ) Benefit Payments (160 ) (160 ) (167 ) Net flows (239 ) (315 ) (380 ) Interest credited and other activity(2) 397 127 124 Policy charges (1 ) (5 ) (4 ) Ending total account value $ 3,452 $ 3,295 $ 3,488 (1) Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments sold through defined contribution plan products are included with such products within the Retirement segment. (2) Includes cumulative reclassification of $259 million in 2009 from variable annuity to fixed annuity account values to conform presentation of certain contracts in annuitization status. (3) As of December 31, 2009, variable annuity account values are invested in balanced funds ($30 billion or 37%), equity funds ($27 billion or 33%), market value adjusted or fixed rate options ($11 billion or 14%), bond funds ($9 billion or 11%), and other ($4 billion or 5%). 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $84.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $20.7 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities due to equity market appreciation and from positive variable annuity net flows. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $5.9 billion, from $10.2 billion in 2008 to $16.1 billion in 2009. The increase reflects a benefit from the impact of market disruptions on some of our competitors, certain of which implemented product modifications to increase pricing and scale back product features in the second and third quarters of 2009. We also experienced increased sales in the third quarter of 2009 related to certain optional living benefit features which we previously announced would be discontinued during the third quarter of 2009. Positive sales momentum continued into the fourth quarter of 2009 with our modified product offering, which we expect will remain competitively positioned relative to our competitors going forward and expect will provide us an attractive risk and profitability profile, as all currently offered optional living benefit features include the automatic rebalancing element described below. Individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals decreased by $2.2 billion, from $8.0 billion in 2008 to $5.8 billion in 2009, reflecting the overall impact of lower account values in the first half of the year due to market depreciation and lower lapses for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death or living benefit value. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $63.3 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $20.5 billion from December 31, 2007. The decrease came 99 Table of Contents primarily from decreases in the market value of customers variable annuities due to significant equity market declines. Individual variable annuity gross sales decreased by $1.5 billion, from $11.7 billion in 2007 to $10.2 billion in 2008 and individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals decreased by $1.6 billion, from $9.6 billion in 2007 to $8.0 billion in 2008, reflecting the decrease in both inflows and outflows which generally occurs during periods of market volatility and equity market decline. The decrease in individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals also reflects lower lapses for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk As a result of the volatility and disruption in the global financial markets, in recent years we have seen significant increases in the net amounts at risk embedded in our variable annuity products with riders that include optional living and guaranteed minimum death benefit features. The net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the guaranteed minimum benefit amount in excess of the contractholders current account balance. As part of our risk management strategy we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of the risks associated with our variable annuity products, primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, and externally purchased hedging instruments. The rate of return we realize from our variable annuity contracts can vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the impact on any capital markets risks that we hedge, and the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts that benefit from the automatic rebalancing element. The automatic rebalancing element, included in the design of certain optional living benefits, transfers assets between the variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, fixed income investments backed by our general account or a separate account bond portfolio. The transfers are based on a static mathematical formula which considers a number of factors, including the performance of the contractholder selected investments. In general, negative investment performance results in transfers to fixed income investments backed by our general account or separate account bond portfolio, and positive investment performance results in transfers back to contractholder selected investments. Overall, the automatic rebalancing element is designed to help limit our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Beginning in 2009, our latest offerings of optional living benefit features associated with variable annuity products all include an automatic rebalancing element, and in 2009 we discontinued any new sales of optional living benefit features without an automatic rebalancing element. Variable annuity account values with living benefit features were $52.5 billion, $33.1 billion and $37.1 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following table sets forth the account values and net amounts at risk of our variable annuities with living benefit features split between those that include an automatic rebalancing element and those that do not, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk (in millions) Automatic rebalancing element(1) $ 34,901 $ 1,061 $ 17,653 $ 1,328 $ 13,837 $ 101 No automatic rebalancing element 17,570 2,785 15,401 4,973 23,329 644 Total variable annuity account values with living benefit features $ 52,471 $ 3,846 $ 33,054 $ 6,301 $ 37,166 $ 745 (1) As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, asset values that have rebalanced to fixed income investments backed by our general account or a separate account bond portfolio due to the automatic rebalancing element represent 23% or $8.2 billion of the $34.9 billion total account value, 78% or $13.8 billion of the $17.7 billion total account value, and 4% or $0.5 billion of the $13.8 billion total account value, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 67% of variable annuity account values with living benefit features included an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 53% and 37% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 28% of the net amount at risk associated 100 Table of Contents with variable annuity account values with living benefit features included an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 21% and 14% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in account values which include an automatic rebalancing element in 2009 reflects the impact of improving market conditions as well as sales of our latest product offerings, as discussed above. Improving market conditions also drove the decline in the net amount at risk in 2009. Our guaranteed minimum death benefits guarantee a minimum return on the contract value or an enhanced value, if applicable, to be used solely for purposes of determining benefits payable in the event of death. All of the $52.5 billion, $33.1 billion and $37.1 billion of variable annuity account values with living benefit features as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, also contain guaranteed minimum death benefits. An additional $24.4 billion, $23.3 billion and $38.0 billion of variable annuity account values, respectively, contain guaranteed minimum death benefits, but no living benefit features. Certain account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits are affected by an automatic rebalancing element because the contractholder selected a living benefit feature which includes an automatic rebalancing element. The following table sets forth the account values and net amounts at risk of our variable annuities with guaranteed minimum death benefits split between those that are affected by an automatic rebalancing element and those that are not, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk (in millions) Automatic rebalancing element $ 34,901 $ 800 $ 17,653 $ 1,698 $ 13,837 $ 95 No automatic rebalancing element 41,975 7,798 38,733 14,404 61,352 3,364 Total variable annuity account values with death benefit features $ 76,876 $ 8,598 $ 56,386 $ 16,102 $ 75,189 $ 3,459 As of December 31, 2009 approximately 45% of variable annuity account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits were affected by an automatic rebalancing element because the contractholder selected a living benefit feature which includes an automatic rebalancing element, compared to 31% and 18% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 9% of the net amount at risk associated with variable annuity account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits were affected by an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 11% and 3% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Retirement Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retirement segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 4,676 $ 4,844 $ 4,708 Benefits and expenses 4,166 4,313 4,226 Adjusted operating income 510 531 482 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (842 ) (1,076 ) (128 ) Related charges(2) 6 7 (1 ) Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) 1,533 (1,364 ) 97 Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) (831 ) 793 (86 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 376 $ (1,109 ) $ 364 101 Table of Contents (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. On December 31, 2007 we acquired a portion of Union Bank of California, N.A.s, or UBOCs, retirement business, including $7.3 billion in full service retirement account values, for $103 million of cash consideration. The retirement account values related to this acquisition primarily consist of mutual funds and other client assets we administer, and are not reported on our balance sheet. The integration of this business was completed in the second quarter of 2008. On October 10, 2008, we acquired MullinTBG Insurance Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including nonqualified executive deferred compensation plans. The acquisition included $8.9 billion of nonqualified full service retirement account values that we administer, which are not reported on our balance sheet. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $21 million, from $531 million in 2008 to $510 million in 2009. Results for both periods include the impact of an annual review of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits for current period experience. Adjusted operating income for 2009 included a $3 million charge from the annual review, compared to a $21 million charge in 2008. The charge in 2008 primarily reflected a decrease in our estimate of future gross profits, including a decline in our asset based profit assumptions and an increase in our expense assumptions. The quarterly updates for actual experience resulted in $5 million of charges in 2009 and $23 million of benefits in 2008, reflecting the cumulative impact on amortization of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period. In addition, 2008 included a $29 million benefit from a reduction in the amortization of valuation of business acquired due to a cumulative adjustment relating to the calculation of actual and expected gross profits. Together, these items resulted in a net charge of $8 million in 2009 and a net benefit of $31 million in 2008. Excluding the items discussed above, adjusted operating income increased $18 million compared to 2008, reflecting higher results in our full service business, partially offset by a decrease in adjusted operating income for our institutional investment products business. The increase in our full service business was primarily related to improved investment results, driven by higher net yields due to the impact of lower crediting rates on general account liabilities, resulting from rate resets, as well as higher average invested assets in our general account reflecting full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products. Our ability to maintain current net yields, which are impacted by the levels of interest rates, the pace and extent of changes in interest rates and the minimum guaranteed crediting rates on our general account stable value products, may affect investment results in future periods. Also contributing to the increase in the full service business was a $29 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, reflecting a benefit of $12 million in 2009 and a charge of $17 million in 2008. The benefit in 2009 was driven by the impact of a reduction in equity market volatility on these benefit features. The charge in 2008 was driven by the impact of changes in equity market prices and volatility on these benefit features, prior to the implementation of our hedging of equity market price risk during the fourth quarter of 2008. Serving as a partial offset to these increases was lower asset based fees, due to a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values, primarily resulting from equity market depreciation and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and 102 Table of Contents mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, as well as fee concessions made to certain existing clients. Although account value declines in 2008 and early 2009 due to equity market depreciation were partially offset by recent large plan sales, in some instances these cases provide for more limited product offerings than existing business, and consequently a lower contribution to asset based fees. The decrease in our institutional investment products business primarily reflects a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements of $44 million, primarily due to a smaller benefit in 2009 related to updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, as well as less favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business. Partially offsetting this decrease was improved investment results and a favorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. The increase in investment results was primarily due to increased net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio, and the impact of the maturity of a single large guaranteed investment contract which had an interest crediting rate substantially in excess of our general account invested asset yield. The increase in net swap settlements resulted from a higher notional amount of swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio and the generally favorable impact of lower interest rates on those swaps. As we continued to manage the duration gap between assets and liabilities within our risk management framework, the use of interest rate swaps to increase the duration of the investment portfolio grew in 2009 as the duration of the investment portfolio excluding the impact of swaps declined. The investment portfolio duration has generally declined relative to the liabilities as a result of purchases of fixed income securities with shorter duration than the duration of our liabilities and higher levels of short term investments discussed below. Partially offsetting these increases in investment results was a lower benefit from the accretion into net investment income of fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. Such accretion did not contribute to results for 2009 due to our adoption of new authoritative guidance related to fixed maturity other than temporary impairments on January 1, 2009. Also serving as partial offsets were a lower base of invested assets in our general account reflecting scheduled withdrawals of our guaranteed investment products and lower yields, including the impact of declining short term interest rates and a higher balance of investments in lower yielding assets, such as cash and short term investments, for liquidity purposes. Higher levels of short term liquidity have been maintained in 2009 to provide additional capacity to address changing cash needs during the current market conditions. Investment results in future periods may be negatively impacted if we are unable to replace maturities of guaranteed investment products with new additions. For further discussion of our sales, see Sales results and account values. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for the Retirement segment increased $49 million, from $482 million in 2007 to $531 million in 2008. Included within adjusted operating income in 2007 is an $82 million charge reflecting payments made to plan clients related to a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager, State Street Global Advisors, Inc., or SSgA. This action seeks, among other relief, restitution of certain losses experienced by plan clients attributable to certain investment funds managed by SSgA as to which we believe SSgA employed investment strategies and practices that were misrepresented by SSgA and failed to exercise the standard of care of a prudent investment manager. In order to protect the interests of the affected plans and their participants while we pursue these remedies, we have made payments to affected plan clients that authorize us to proceed on their behalf. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2008 includes a $29 million benefit from a reduction in the amortization of valuation of business acquired due to a cumulative adjustment relating to the calculation of actual and expected gross profits. Excluding the items discussed above, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $62 million compared to 2007, reflecting lower adjusted operating income in our full service business, partially offset by improved results for our institutional investment products business. The decrease relating to the full service business was primarily attributable to higher general and administrative expenses, driven by expenses incurred to expand our product and service capabilities and to support several large client sales in 2008, and lower asset management fees, driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values primarily resulting from equity market depreciation. Also contributing to the decrease in the full service business was a $15 million unfavorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts. This unfavorable variance includes the impact of 2008 changes in equity market prices and volatility on these benefit features, prior to the implementation of our hedging of equity market price risk during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, adjusted operating income for 2008 includes an $8 million loss relating to the acquired retirement business of UBOC. Results from this acquisition include costs related to an interim service agreement with 103 Table of Contents UBOC, which covered the integration period, as well as $6 million of transition costs. Improved results in our institutional investment products business were driven by a greater benefit from reserve refinements of $50 million, primarily reflecting updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, as well as more favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business. Partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $168 million, from $4,844 million in 2008 to $4,676 million in 2009. Net investment income decreased $255 million, primarily reflecting lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and the impact of a higher balance of investments in lower yielding assets, such as cash and short term investments, for liquidity purposes, as discussed above. Also contributing to the decline in net investment income was a smaller base of invested assets related to our guaranteed investment products, due to maturities, and a lower benefit from the accretion into net investment income of fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these declines were increases in net investment income from a larger base of invested assets in our full service business, primarily driven by participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, and a favorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. Partially offsetting the decline in net investment income was a $75 million increase in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income, primarily relating to higher net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio, as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase was a $35 million increase in revenues associated with the acquired operations of MullinTBG and a $29 million favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and derivative hedge positions related to the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts. Partially offsetting these increases in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income was a decline in asset based fees in our full service business driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values, primarily resulting from equity market depreciation and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, as well as fee concessions made to certain existing clients, partially offset by recent large plan sales, as discussed above. In addition, premiums increased $12 million, driven by higher life contingent structured settlement sales, partially offset by lower single premium group annuity sales, which resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $136 million, from $4,708 million in 2007 to $4,844 million in 2008. Premiums increased $261 million, driven by higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium group annuity sales, and resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Partially offsetting this increase, net investment income decreased $112 million, primarily reflecting lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets, lower balances of investments supported by borrowings, negative earnings in 2008 relating to a single equity method investment in a fixed income fund and an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. These items, resulting in a decrease to net investment income, were partially offset by a larger base of invested assets, driven by sales of guaranteed investment and structured settlement products in the institutional and retail markets and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, and the accretion into net investment income in 2008 of $23 million relating to fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. In addition, policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income decreased $13 million, primarily due to a decline in asset management fees, driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values primarily resulting from equity market depreciation, as well as full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products. Also contributing to the decline was an unfavorable variance in the mark to market of 104 Table of Contents embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, driven by financial market conditions in 2008. Partially offsetting these decreases in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income was $22 million of revenues associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC and $12 million of revenues associated with the acquired operations of MullinTBG, as well as increased net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio. Benefits and Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $147 million, from $4,313 million in 2008 to $4,166 million in 2009. Absent the impact of the annual reviews and other adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired discussed above, which account for a $39 million increase, benefits and expenses decreased $186 million. Interest credited to policyholders account balances decreased $237 million, primarily reflecting lower crediting rates on floating rate guaranteed investment products, the impact of maturities within our guaranteed investment products and lower crediting rates on full service stable value product liabilities due to rate resets, partially offset by the impact of higher full service general account stable value product account values due to participant transfers from equity based separate account and mutual fund products. In addition, interest expense decreased $60 million, reflecting lower interest rates and lower borrowings used to support investments. Partially offsetting these decreases, policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $59 million, primarily reflecting a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, as discussed above, and the increase in reserves associated with the increase in premiums discussed above, partially offset by lower interest on lower general account policy reserves. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $54 million excluding the impact of the annual reviews and other adjustments mentioned above, driven by a $39 million increase in costs related to the acquired operations of MullinTBG, as well as expenses incurred to support several large client sales, partially offset by the absence of the costs of an interim service agreement relating to the retirement business acquired from Union Bank of California, N.A. and a $12 million charge for one time costs associated with certain cost reduction programs, which were included in 2008. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $87 million, from $4,226 million in 2007 to $4,313 million in 2008. Policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $176 million primarily reflecting the increase in reserves associated with the increase in premiums on higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium group annuity sales discussed above, partially offset by an increased benefit from reserve refinements primarily reflecting updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, more favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business and lower interest on general account reserves. In addition, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $71 million, primarily reflecting a greater base of guaranteed investment products sold in the institutional and retail markets and higher full service general account stable value product account values due to participant transfers from equity based separate account and mutual fund products, partially offset by lower crediting rates on floating rate guaranteed investment product liabilities due to rate resets. Partially offsetting these increases was a $123 million decrease in interest expense, primarily reflecting lower borrowings used to support investments and lower interest rates on these borrowings. Also serving as a partial offset, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, decreased $43 million, including the impact of the $82 million charge in 2007 related to payments made to plan clients associated with a legal action filed against an unaffiliated asset manager and the $29 million benefit in 2008 from a cumulative adjustment relating to valuation of business acquired discussed above. Excluding these items, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization increased $68 million, driven by expenses incurred to expand our full service product and service capabilities, including costs associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC and acquired operations of MullinTBG, expenses incurred to support several large client sales in 2008 and a $12 million charge in 2008 for one time costs associated with certain cost reduction programs. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, includes $30 million of costs in 2008 associated with the acquired retirement business of UBOC, including costs related to an interim services agreement with UBOC, which covered the integration period, as well as $6 million of transition costs, and $13 million of costs related to the operations of MullinTBG. 105 Table of Contents Sales Results and Account Values The following table shows the changes in the account values and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are deposits and sales or additions, as applicable, minus withdrawals and benefits. These concepts do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Full Service(1): Beginning total account value $ 99,738 $ 112,192 $ 97,430 Deposits and sales 23,188 18,941 14,692 Withdrawals and benefits (14,438 ) (15,051 ) (13,749 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income(2) 17,857 (25,259 ) 6,563 Acquisition(3) 8,915 7,256 Ending total account value $ 126,345 $ 99,738 $ 112,192 Net additions (withdrawals) $ 8,750 $ 3,890 $ 943 Institutional Investment Products(4): Beginning total account value $ 50,491 $ 51,591 $ 50,269 Additions(5) 7,786 5,738 4,973 Withdrawals and benefits(6) (7,817 ) (7,392 ) (5,866 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income 2,287 2,198 2,765 Other(7) (839 ) (1,644 ) (550 ) Ending total account value $ 51,908 $ 50,491 $ 51,591 Net additions (withdrawals) $ (31 ) $ (1,654 ) $ (893 ) (1) Ending total account value for the full service business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $5.4 billion, $4.6 billion and $5.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (2) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income includes $511 million for 2007 representing a transfer from Institutional Investment Products to Full Service as a result of one clients change in contract form. (3) On December 31, 2007 we acquired a portion of UBOCs retirement business, as discussed above. On October 10, 2008 we acquired MullinTBG, as discussed above. (4) Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $5.2 billion, $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Ending total account value for the institutional investments products business also includes $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 related to collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLBNY), and $1.8 billion, $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to affiliated funding agreements issued using the proceeds from the sale of Prudential Financial retail medium term notes. For additional information regarding the FHLBNY and the retail medium term notes program see, Liquidity and Capital Resources. (5) Additions includes $500 million and $700 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. These additions are offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. (6) Withdrawals and benefits includes $(488) million for 2009 representing transfers of client balances from accounts we managed to externally managed accounts. This withdrawal is offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. (7) Other includes transfers from (to) the Asset Management segment of $(11) million, $432 million and $185 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. Other also includes $(511) million for 2007 representing a transfer from Institutional Investment Products to Full Service as a result of one clients change in contract form. Other also includes $(12) million and $(700) million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing net transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. These transfers are offset within Additions or Withdrawals and benefits, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. For 2009, Other also includes $1,500 million representing collateralized funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY and $(1,522) million representing terminations of affiliated funding agreements utilizing proceeds from the issuances to FHLBNY. Remaining amounts for all periods presented primarily represent changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $126.3 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $26.6 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase in account values was primarily driven by an increase in the market value of customer funds due to equity market appreciation and, to a lesser extent, by net additions. Net additions increased $4.9 billion, from $3.9 billion in 2008 to $8.8 billion 106 Table of Contents in 2009, primarily reflecting higher new plan sales and, to a lesser extent, lower plan lapses. New plan sales in 2009 included twelve client sales over $100 million, totaling $7.5 billion, compared to ten clients sale over $100 million in 2008, which totaled $4.5 billion. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $51.9 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $1.4 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase in account values was primarily driven by increases in the market value of customer funds, primarily from interest credited on general account business and credit spread tightening in the fixed income markets, partially offset by net outflows from externally managed accounts. Net withdrawals decreased $1.6 billion, from $1,654 million in 2008 to $31 million in 2009. This decrease primarily reflects higher sales of investment only, fee based stable value products, which more than offset lower sales of guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets. Sales of our retail notes and institutional notes have been negatively impacted by unfavorable capital markets conditions, in particular during the second half of 2008 and through 2009, reflecting the extreme stress experienced by global financial markets from the second half of 2007 through the early portion of 2009. Rating agency downgrades to the claims paying ratings of our insurance companies in the first quarter of 2009 could also have an adverse impact on sales of our guaranteed investment products in future periods. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $99.7 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $12.5 billion from December 31, 2007. The decrease in account values was driven primarily by a decrease in the market value of customer funds due to declines in the equity markets, partially offset by $8.9 billion of account values related to the acquisition of MullinTBG and net additions of $3.9 billion. Net additions increased $2.947 billion, from $943 million in 2007 to $3.890 billion in 2008, reflecting higher new plan sales and participant contributions, partially offset by higher plan lapses. New plan sales in 2008 included ten large client sales totaling $4.5 billion, with each client sale therein totaling more than $100 million. Plan lapses in 2008 included $1.1 billion of lapses relating to account values acquired from UBOC. These lapses primarily occurred during the final stages of the conversion of acquired account values to our systems platform, which was completed in the second quarter of 2008. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $50.5 billion as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of $1.1 billion from December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting net withdrawals of $1.7 billion, driven by the impact of scheduled withdrawals in our guaranteed investment products, and declines in the value of asset balances for externally managed accounts. Interest on general account business partially offset these decreases. Net withdrawals increased $761 million, from net withdrawals of $893 million in 2007 to net withdrawals of $1.654 billion in 2008. This increase primarily reflects higher scheduled withdrawals in our guaranteed investment products, partially offset by higher additions due to the 2008 transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. Sales of our guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets have been negatively impacted by unfavorable capital markets conditions, in particular during the second half of 2008 as the stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased. Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,257 $ 1,686 $ 2,319 Expenses 1,202 1,454 1,618 Adjusted operating income 55 232 701 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (32 ) 40 19 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(2) (14 ) 28 63 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 9 $ 300 $ 783 107 Table of Contents (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relate to the equity interests of minority investors. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $177 million, from $232 million in 2008 to $55 million in 2009. Results of the segments commercial mortgage activities decreased reflecting higher credit and valuation related charges of $177 million on interim loans. Due to market conditions and the inherent risk of these loans, the underwriting of new interim loans was suspended during the third quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, the principal balance of interim loans outstanding totaled $1.7 billion, which excludes $86 million of commitments for future fundings that would need to be disbursed if the borrowers met the conditions for these fundings, as well as $59 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. As of December 31, 2009, these interim loans outstanding had a weighted average loan to value ratio of 112%, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. As of December 31, 2009, for those loans where the loan amount is greater than the collateral value, the excess of the loan amount over the collateral value is $264 million. The interim loans had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.16 times. A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. These loans also had an allowance for losses or credit related market value losses totaling $236 million as of December 31, 2009. Results in 2009 also reflect lower transaction and performance based incentive fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds reflecting a decline in real estate values, as well as a decrease in asset management fees primarily from retail and institutional customer assets primarily as a result of lower average asset values. In addition, results for 2009 reflect lower income related to mutual fund service fees and securities lending activities. The decrease in adjusted operating income was partially offset by more favorable results from the segments proprietary investing activities which increased $137 million, from a loss of $207 million in 2008 to a loss of $70 million in 2009, primarily within proprietary investing fixed income investments. Results reflect a reduction of losses in a fixed income fund which included losses of $172 million in 2008, compared to losses of $11 million in 2009. The Asset Management segment redeemed its entire investment in the fixed income fund as of June 30, 2009. Fixed income investment results in 2008 also included impairments of $40 million on collateralized debt obligations, which as of December 31, 2009 have an amortized cost of zero. Proprietary investing results for equity investments increased $33 million reflecting losses in 2008, compared to gains in 2009. In 2009, we exited several of these equity investment funds. These increases were partially offset by real estate proprietary investing which decreased $93 million primarily reflecting the impact of lower real estate values on co investments. Also, results for 2009 reflect a decrease in expenses largely related to compensation. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $469 million, from $701 million in 2007 to $232 million in 2008. The decrease in adjusted operating income is largely attributable to unfavorable results from the segments proprietary investing business. Results of the segments proprietary investing business decreased $352 million, primarily due to a decline in the value of fixed income investments of $274 million, including impairments on collateralized debt obligations of $40 million. The decrease in fixed income investments includes a decline of $237 million in a fixed income fund, from income of $65 million in 2007, to a loss of $172 million in 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, two entities within the Asset Management segment made a request to redeem their entire investment from this fixed income fund, which aggregate investments were $185 million at December 31, 2008. We also reduced certain equity investments in the fourth quarter of 2008. Also contributing to the decline in proprietary investing results were losses on equity investments of $22 million in 2008, a decrease of $46 million from 2007. In addition, real estate proprietary investing decreased $31 million, primarily from co investments, reflecting a decline in real estate values. 108 Table of Contents Results in 2008 also reflect lower performance based incentive fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, in addition to higher expenses. These decreases were partially offset by increased asset management fees primarily from institutional customer assets as a result of net asset flows, as well as higher income related to securities lending activities. Revenues The following tables set forth the Asset Management segments revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under Operating Results, by type, asset management fees by source and assets under management for the periods indicated. In managing our business we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to U.S. GAAP assets, because a principal source of our revenues are fees based on assets under management. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Revenues by type: Asset management fees by source: Institutional customers $ 511 $ 540 $ 488 Retail customers(1) 268 307 347 General account 270 268 246 Total asset management fees 1,049 1,115 1,081 Incentive fees 49 71 188 Transaction fees 27 76 92 Proprietary investing (41 ) (128 ) 204 Commercial mortgage(2) (99 ) 31 76 Total incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues (64 ) 50 560 Service, distribution and other revenues(3) 272 521 678 Total revenues $ 1,257 $ 1,686 $ 2,319 (1) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Includes mortgage origination and spread lending revenues of our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business. (3) Includes payments from Wells Fargo under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wells Fargo. The agreement extends for ten years after termination of the Wachovia Securities joint venture, which occurred on December 31, 2009. The revenue from Wells Fargo under this agreement was $61 million in 2009, $55 million in 2008 and $51 million in 2007. December 31,2009 December 31,2008 (in billions) Assets Under Management (at fair market value): Institutional customers(1) $ 188.4 $ 161.2 Retail customers(2) 84.4 61.6 General account 184.0 172.6 Total $ 456.8 $ 395.4 (1) Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. (2) Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. 109 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the proprietary investments of the Asset Management segment at carrying value (including the value of derivative instruments used to mitigate equity market and currency risk) by asset class and source as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Co Investments: Real Estate $ 370 $ 221 $ 192 Fixed Income 14 197 409 Seed Investments: Real Estate 198 345 356 Public Equity 57 252 359 Fixed Income 33 52 50 Loans Secured by Investor Equity Commitments or Fund Assets: Real Estate secured by Investor Equity 13 179 181 Real Estate secured by Fund Assets 276 283 212 Total $ 961 $ 1,529 $ 1,759 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $429 million, from $1.686 billion in 2008 to $1.257 billion in 2009. Service, distribution and other revenues decreased $249 million of which $97 million related to lower revenues in certain consolidated funds, which were fully offset by lower expenses related to noncontrolling interests in these funds. The remainder of the decrease in service, distribution and other revenues includes lower mutual fund service fee revenues, partially offset by expenses as discussed below, as well as a decline in revenues related to securities lending activities. Commercial mortgage revenues decreased $130 million reflecting higher credit and valuation related charges on interim loans in 2009, as discussed above. Asset management fees decreased $66 million, primarily from the management of retail and institutional customer assets as a result of lower average asset values. In addition, transaction and incentive fees decreased $71 million primarily reflecting a decline in real estate values due to adverse real estate market conditions. A portion of these incentive based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December 31, 2009, $150 million of cumulative incentive fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $123 million as of December 31, 2008. In 2009, adjustments of $47 million related to previously recognized incentive fees contributed to the decline in incentive fees resulting from fund performance. Proprietary investing revenues increased $87 million reflecting a decline in losses, primarily the result of lower proprietary investing balances in 2009, including the redemption of a fixed income fund and the exiting of several equity investment funds in 2009, compared to investment losses in these funds in 2008. Real estate proprietary investing revenues decreased primarily due to the impact of lower real estate values on co investments. Future incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues will be impacted by the level and diversification of our proprietary investments, the commercial real estate market, and other domestic and international market conditions. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $633 million, from $2.319 billion in 2007 to $1.686 billion in 2008. Revenues from proprietary investing decreased $332 million, driven by investment losses in fixed income and equity investments. Incentive fees decreased $117 million primarily related to institutional real estate funds as a result of adverse real estate market conditions. A portion of these incentive based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. In 2008, adjustments of $25 million related to previously recognized incentive fees contributed to the decline in incentive fees resulting from fund performance. In addition, commercial mortgage revenues decreased $45 million due to unfavorable credit market conditions which resulted in decreases in the value of investments held, partially offset by higher net investment income from higher average balances. Service, distribution and other revenues decreased $157 million, including a reduction in revenue of $150 million, which consists of a change in the service fee arrangement whereby Wells Fargo Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) is paying investment managers directly, with a corresponding decrease in expense, as well as lower revenues in certain consolidated real estate and fixed income funds, which 110 Table of Contents were fully offset by lower expenses related to minority interest in these funds. Service, distribution and other revenues includes payments from Wells Fargo under an agreement implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wells Fargo. The terms of the agreement extend for ten years after termination of our participation in the joint venture, which occurred on December 31, 2009. The remainder of the decrease in service, distribution and other revenues includes lower other service revenue, partially offset by higher revenues related to securities lending activities. Asset management fees increased $34 million, primarily from the management of institutional customer assets as a result of net asset flows. Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $252 million, from $1.454 billion in 2008 to $1.202 billion in 2009. The decrease in expenses was driven by lower revenues, as discussed above, related to performance based incentive fees, lower revenues associated with certain consolidated funds, the decline in mutual fund service fee revenue, and lower interest costs related to our reduced proprietary investing activities. In addition, compensation costs decreased primarily due to lower incentive compensation as a result of lower revenues, as well as lower headcount. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Expenses decreased $164 million, from $1.618 billion in 2007 to $1.454 billion in 2008, driven by lower expenses related to the decline in service fee revenue, performance based incentive fees, and revenues associated with certain real estate and fixed income funds, as discussed above. These items are partially offset by higher compensation costs primarily reflecting increased headcount. Individual Life Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 2,768 $ 2,754 $ 2,602 Benefits and expenses 2,206 2,308 1,980 Adjusted operating income 562 446 622 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 134 (619 ) (74 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 696 $ (173 ) $ 548 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $116 million, from $446 million in 2008 to $562 million in 2009. The increase in adjusted operating income reflects improved earnings from variable products, which benefited from lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, driven by the impact of more favorable equity markets in 2009 on separate account fund performance. Separate account fund performance above expected levels results in an increase in total future gross profits on which the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves is based, and accordingly, lower amortization in the current period. The prior year period contained higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of higher amortization of unearned revenue reserves in comparison to the current year, due to actual separate account performance that was below expected levels. Results in 2009 also benefited from gains on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders in 2009 compared to losses on these liquidations in 2008. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable contracts, lapses may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this lag being borne by the Company. Partially offsetting these items was the impact on variable product 111 Table of Contents profitability of a decrease in asset based fees due to lower average separate account asset balances in 2009 reflecting the impact of the unfavorable equity markets in late 2008 and early 2009, as well as expected runoff of older variable policies. More favorable mortality experience, net of reinsurance, in 2009 compared to 2008 as well as higher earnings from growth in term and universal life insurance in force also contributed to the increase in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income for 2009 also includes a benefit of $55 million from annual reviews of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits which forms the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves as well as for establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit features in certain contracts. Results for 2008 include a benefit of $79 million from the annual assumption review. In addition, results for 2009 include a $30 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for the prior year include a similar benefit of $53 million. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiation periodically which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was revised effective in late 2008 and the profit opportunities will be significantly reduced in 2010 and beyond. The benefit of $55 million in 2009 related to the annual review of assumptions reflects higher investment spread assumptions and improved future mortality expectations, partially offset by updates to interest rate assumptions which increased the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death benefit features in certain contracts. In addition, the review of assumptions in 2009 reflects a reduction in our future rate of return assumption, which reduced the benefit to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization on unearned revenue reserves. The benefit of $79 million in 2008 primarily reflects improved future mortality expectations. We derive our near term future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. However, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through 2009, the projected near term future annual rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach was greater than our near term maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. As a result, we utilized the near term maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean on our estimate of total gross profits. The near term maximum future rate of return under the reversion to mean approach was reduced in third quarter of 2009 from 10.9% to 10.1% as part of our annual assumption review. Included in this revised blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $176 million, from $622 million in 2007 to $446 million in 2008. Adjusted operating income for 2008 includes a $79 million benefit from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other costs due to an increased estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, based on an annual review, primarily reflecting improved future mortality expectations based on improvements in recent mortality experience on our in force business, compared to a similar benefit for $78 million from the annual review in 2007. Results for 2008 also include a $53 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for 2007 include a similar benefit amounting to $57 million. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiation periodically which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements has been renegotiated and the profit opportunities will be significantly reduced in 2010 and beyond. Absent the effect of these items, adjusted operating income for 2008 decreased $173 million from the prior year. On this basis, the decrease in adjusted operating income is primarily due to a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, primarily reflecting the impact of unfavorable equity markets on both separate account fund performance, including the impact of a corresponding change to the future rate of return assumptions, and variable product policy persistency. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income in 2008 was a decrease in asset based fees due to lower separate account asset balances reflecting the impact of the unfavorable equity markets, as well as losses on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable contracts, lapses may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this lag being borne by the Company. These decreases were partially offset by higher product margins from growth in term and universal life insurance in force and improved mortality experience, net of reinsurance, compared to the prior year. The net increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves includes the impact of actual market performance on both actual profits and estimated 112 Table of Contents future gross profits, used as the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs. As stated above, we derive our future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the projected future rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach was greater than 10.9%, our maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. As a result, we utilized the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean, and decreasing our estimate of total gross profits. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $14 million, from $2.754 billion in 2008 to $2.768 billion in 2009. Premiums increased $73 million, primarily due to growth of our in force block of term insurance. Net investment income increased $60 million, reflecting higher asset balances primarily from the financing of statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies and growth in universal life account balances due to increased policyholder deposits. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $119 million, including a $26 million decrease in compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute and an increase of $11 million related to the amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to the annual review of assumptions in both periods, as discussed above. Absent these items policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $104 million, primarily reflecting lower net settlements on interest rate swaps including those used to manage duration, lower amortization of unearned revenue reserves reflecting the impact of more favorable equity markets on variable product separate account fund performance, and lower asset based fees due to lower average separate account asset balances in 2009 reflecting the unfavorable impact of equity market performance in late 2008 and early 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $152 million, from $2.602 billion in 2007 to $2.754 billion in 2008. Premiums increased $80 million, primarily due to increased premiums on term life insurance reflecting continued growth of our in force block of term insurance. Net investment income increased $93 million, reflecting higher asset balances primarily from the financing of statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies and growth in universal life account balances due to increased policyholder deposits. Policy charges and fee income increased $26 million, including a decrease of $36 million due to the effects of updates in both periods of our assumptions related to the amortization of unearned revenue reserves based on the annual reviews, as discussed above. Absent the impact of these annual reviews, policy charges and fee income increased $62 million primarily reflecting the increase in amortization of unearned revenue reserves, discussed above, partially offset by losses on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders. These items were partially offset by lower asset based fees due to lower separate account asset balances reflecting the unfavorable impact of equity market performance. Benefits and Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $102 million, from $2.308 billion in 2008 to $2.206 billion in 2009. Absent the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both periods, as discussed above, benefits and expenses decreased $137 million, from $2.468 billion in 2008 to $2.331 billion in 2009. On this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $203 million, primarily reflecting the impact of more favorable equity markets in the second half of 2009 on variable product separate account fund performance, which was partially offset by the impact of unfavorable equity markets in late 2008 and early 2009 on variable product policy persistency in early 2009. Also on this basis, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, increased $85 million, reflecting increased policyholder reserves associated with growth in our in force block of term insurance and an increase in interest credited to policyholders account balances due to growth in universal life account balances from increased policyholder deposits, partially offset by improved mortality experience compared to the prior year, relative to expected levels. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $328 million, from $1.980 billion in 2007 to $2.308 billion in 2008. Absent the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both 2008 and 2007, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $365 million, from $2.103 billion in 2007 to $2.468 billion in 113 Table of Contents 2008. On this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $225 million, primarily reflecting the impact of unfavorable equity markets on both separate account fund performance, including the impact of a corresponding change to the future rate of return assumptions discussed above, and variable product policy persistency. Also on this basis, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, increased $88 million, reflecting higher policyholder reserves from growth in our in force block of term insurance and an increase in interest credited to policyholders account balances due to growth in universal life account balances from increased policyholder deposits. Interest expense increased $49 million, primarily reflecting interest on increased borrowings related to the financing of statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies. Sales Results The following table sets forth individual life insurance annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year excess premiums and deposits. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Annualized New Business Premiums(1): Variable Life $ 20 $ 39 $ 54 Universal Life 113 83 87 Term Life 226 209 212 Total $ 359 $ 331 $ 353 Annualized new business premiums by distribution channel(1): Prudential Agents $ 95 $ 109 $ 126 Third party 264 222 227 Total $ 359 $ 331 $ 353 (1) Annualized scheduled premiums plus 10% of excess (unscheduled) and single premiums from new sales. Excludes corporate owned life insurance. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, measured as described above, increased $28 million, from $331 million in 2008 to $359 million in 2009. The increase in sales is primarily due to a $30 million increase in sales of universal life products and a $17 million increase in term life product sales primarily by the third party distribution channel, partially offset by a $19 million decrease in sales of variable life products primarily by Prudential Agents. Sales from the third party distribution channel were $42 million higher than 2008 due to higher sales of universal life products reflecting the impact of product repricing in the second half of 2008 as well as higher sales of term life products reflecting market disruptions for some of our competitors. In the second and fourth quarter of 2009 we increased universal life and term life prices, which could impact future sales. Sales by Prudential Agents were $14 million lower than 2008 primarily due to lower sales of variable life products which were impacted by the unfavorable market conditions experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. The number of Prudential Agents increased from 2,360 at December 31, 2008 to 2,447 at December 31, 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, measured as described above, decreased $22 million, from $353 million in 2007 to $331 million in 2008, primarily due to lower sales of variable life products by Prudential Agents. Sales of universal life and term life products also decreased from the prior year. Sales by Prudential Agents were $17 million lower than the prior year primarily due to lower sales of variable life and term life products, reflecting a product shift towards annuity sales. The number of Prudential Agents decreased from 2,425 at December 31, 2007 to 2,360 at December 31, 2008. Sales from the third party distribution channel were $5 million lower than the prior year due to lower sales of variable and universal life products. 114 Table of Contents Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the individual life insurance business policy surrender experience for variable and universal life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under U.S. GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Generally, our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 ($ in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 855 $ 802 $ 752 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders accountbalances, and separate account balances 4.2 % 3.8 % 3.3 % 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $53 million, from $802 million in 2008 to $855 million in 2009, reflecting a greater volume of surrenders, primarily in the first half of 2009, including lapses to extended term, of variable life insurance, due primarily to market conditions in late 2008 and into early 2009 and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances increased from 3.8% in 2008 to 4.2% in 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $50 million, from $752 million in 2007 to $802 million in 2008, reflecting a greater volume of surrenders of variable life insurance in 2008 compared to the prior year, due primarily to market conditions and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or make the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances increased from 3.3% in 2007 to 3.8% in 2008. Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 5,285 $ 4,960 $ 4,799 Benefits and expenses 4,954 4,620 4,513 Adjusted operating income 331 340 286 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (227 ) (201 ) (37 ) Related charges(2) (7 ) (1 ) (2 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 97 $ 138 $ 247 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on interest credited to policyholders account balances. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $9 million, from $340 million in 2008 to $331 million in 2009. Results for 2008 include a $20 million benefit from a premium adjustment for 115 Table of Contents updated data on a large group life insurance case. Also included in the prior year results is a $13 million benefit, as compared to a net benefit of zero in the current year, from refinements in group disability reserves as a result of annual reviews. Excluding the prior year benefits from the premium adjustment and annual reserve refinements, adjusted operating income increased $24 million due to improved underwriting results in 2009 in both our group life and group disability businesses primarily related to business growth, which was partially offset by a related increase in operating expenses. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $54 million, from $286 million in 2007 to $340 million in 2008, primarily reflecting more favorable claims experience in our group life business, as well as growth in our group disability business. Also included in results for 2008 is a $20 million benefit from a premium adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2008 for updated data on a large group life insurance case. Partially offsetting these items was less favorable investment results during 2008. Both periods reflect the benefit from refinements in group disability reserves as a result of annual reviews. These annual reviews benefited both periods by $13 million and were primarily associated with our long term disability products. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $325 million, from $4.960 billion in 2008 to $5.285 billion in 2009. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased by $182 million, from $3.232 billion in 2008 to $3.414 billion in 2009. This increase primarily reflects growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 94.3% in 2009 compared to 93.3% in 2008. Also contributing to this increase were higher premiums from retrospectively experience rated group life business resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts, as discussed below. Partially offsetting the increase in group life premiums is the premium adjustment recorded in 2008 as discussed above. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long term care products, increased by $126 million, from $995 million in 2008 to $1.121 billion in 2009. This increase primarily reflects growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 90.9% in 2009 compared to 85.6% in 2008. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $161 million, from $4.799 billion in 2007 to $4.960 billion in 2008. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased by $54 million, from $3.178 billion in 2007 to $3.232 billion in 2008, primarily reflecting higher premiums from non retrospectively experience rated group life business due to the premium adjustment for updated data on a large case as discussed above and growth in business in force, as new sales exceeded the level of lapses in 2008. Lapse activity remained relatively constant as group life persistency was 94% in 2007 and 93% in 2008. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long term care products, increased by $128 million from $867 million in 2007 to $995 million in 2008. This increase reflects growth in business in force resulting from new sales, which included the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2008, exceeding the level of lapses, which increased as persistency deteriorated from 88% in 2007 to 86% in 2008. The group life and group disability persistency are reflective of continuing competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in net investment income of $24 million, from $671 million in 2007 to $647 million in 2008, as the benefit from growth in invested assets was more than offset by lower investment yields, principally due to lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets. Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Benefits ratio(1): Group life 88.4 % 88.6 % 90.4 % Group disability 88.9 % 87.2 % 86.6 % Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life 9.0 % 8.6 % 9.3 % Group disability 18.3 % 19.8 % 21.0 % 116 Table of Contents (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care products. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $334 million, from $4.620 billion in 2008 to $4.954 billion in 2009. This increase reflects a $283 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, from $3.733 billion in 2008 to $4.016 billion in 2009, reflecting growth of business in force and greater benefits on retrospectively experience rated group life business that resulted in increased premiums as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses primarily related to business growth, as well as a lower benefit in 2009 of the group disability reserve refinements discussed above. The group life benefits ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. Excluding the impact of the premium adjustment discussed above, the group life benefits ratio improved approximately 0.8 percentage points due to more favorable mortality experience. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 1.7 percentage points from 2008 to 2009, primarily due to the impact of annual reserve refinements as a result of annual reviews. Excluding the impact of the annual reserve refinements, the group disability benefits ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. The group life administrative operating expense ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2008 to 2009, as growth in the business outpaced the related increase in operating expenses. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $107 million, from $4.513 billion in 2007 to $4.620 billion in 2008, primarily due to a $110 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, primarily reflecting growth of business in force in our group disability business, partially offset by more favorable claims experience in our group life businesses. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses primarily related to business growth. The group life benefits ratio improved 1.8 percentage points from 2007 to 2008, due to more favorable mortality experience combined with the benefit from a premium adjustment for updated data on a large case. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 0.6 percentage points from 2007 to 2008, due to slightly less favorable claims experience. The group life administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2007 to 2008, as gross premiums increased at a rate that outpaced the increase in operating expenses. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2007 to 2008, reflecting growth in the business from new sales, as discussed above, that outpaced the related increase in operating expenses. Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums(1): Group life $ 339 $ 288 $ 197 Group disability(2) 238 204 155 Total $ 577 $ 492 $ 352 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts, and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. (2) Includes long term care products. 117 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $85 million, from $492 million in 2008 to $577 million in 2009. Group life sales increased $51 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to both new and existing customers, partially offset by lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2009. Group disability sales increased $34 million primarily due to increased sales to existing customers, partially offset by lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $140 million, from $352 million in 2007 to $492 million in 2008. Group life sales increased $91 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to both new and existing customers and higher premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2008. Group disability sales increased $49 million due to increased sales of large case disability products to new customers, higher disability premiums associated with assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, and higher sales of long term care products in 2008. Our sales are reflective of the continuing competitive pricing in the marketplace and the pricing discipline we apply in writing business. International Insurance and Investments Division Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings As a U.S. based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., we seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. The operations of our International Insurance and International Investments segments are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect their U.S. dollar earnings from period to period even if earnings on a local currency basis are relatively constant. As discussed further below, we enter into forward currency derivative contracts, as well as dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as part of our strategy to effectively fix the currency exchange rates for a portion of our prospective non U.S. dollar denominated earnings streams, thereby reducing earnings volatility from unfavorable and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. Forward currency hedging program The financial results of our International Insurance segment and International Investments segment, excluding the global commodities group, for all periods presented reflect the impact of an intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which the segments non U.S. dollar denominated earnings in all countries are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a currency income hedging program designed to mitigate the risk that unfavorable exchange rate changes will reduce the segments U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, Corporate and Other operations executes forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings from the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non U.S. dollar denominated earnings are expected to be generated. This program is primarily associated with the International Insurance segments businesses in Japan, Korea and Taiwan and the International Investments segments businesses in Korea and Europe. The intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations increased (decreased) revenues and adjusted operating income of each segment as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Impact on revenues and adjusted operating income: International Insurance $ (37 ) $ 6 $ 88 International Investments 6 (2 ) (14 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division $ (31 ) $ 4 $ 74 118 Table of Contents Results of Corporate and Other operations include any differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segments and the gains or losses recorded from the forward currency contracts that settled during the period, which includes the impact of any over or under hedge of actual earnings as a result of projected earnings differing from actual earnings. The net impact of this program recorded within the Corporate and Other operations were gains of $26 million, $18 million, and $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The notional amount of these forward currency contracts was $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of which $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to our Japanese insurance operations. Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments In addition, our Japanese insurance operations also hold dual currency investments in the form of fixed maturities and loans. The principal of these dual currency investments are yen denominated while the related interest income is U.S. dollar denominated. These investments are the economic equivalent of exchanging what would otherwise be fixed streams of yen denominated interest income for fixed streams of U.S. dollar interest income. Our Japanese insurance operations also hold investments in yen denominated investments that have been coupled with cross currency coupon swap agreements, creating synthetic dual currency investments. The yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate is effectively fixed, as we are obligated in future periods to exchange fixed amounts of Japanese yen interest payments generated by the yen denominated investments for U.S. dollars at the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rates specified by the cross currency coupon swap agreements. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the notional amount of these investments was &yen;430 billion, or $3.8 billion, and &yen;500 billion, or $4.4 billion, respectively, based upon the foreign currency exchange rates applicable at the time these investments were acquired. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the weighted average yield generated by these investments was 2.9%, 2.3% and 2.7%, respectively. Presented below is the fair value of these instruments as reflected on our balance sheet for the periods presented. December 31,2009 December 31,2008 (in millions) Cross currency coupon swap agreements $ (66 ) $ 12 Foreign exchange component of interest on dual currency investments (100 ) (82 ) Total $ (166 ) $ (70 ) The table below presents as of December 31, 2009, the yen denominated earnings subject to our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments and the related weighted average exchange rates resulting from these investments. Year (1)Interest componentof dual currencyinvestments Cross currencycoupon swap elementof synthetic dualcurrency investments Total Yen denominatedearnings subject tothese investments Weighted averageexchange rate perU.S. Dollar (in billions) (Yen per $) 2010 &yen;3.6 &yen;5.0 &yen;8.6 88.2 2011 3.4 3.9 7.3 85.3 2012 3.1 2.9 6.0 83.0 2013 2034 33.3 53.5 86.8 79.3 Total &yen;43.4 &yen;65.3 &yen;108.7 80.5 (1) Yen amounts are imputed from the contractual U.S. dollar denominated interest cash flows. The present value of the earnings reflected in the table above, on a U.S. dollar denominated basis, is $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. The table above does not reflect the forward currency income hedging program 119 Table of Contents discussed above. In establishing the level of yen denominated earnings that will be hedged through the forward currency income hedging program we take into account the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as well as the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by U.S. dollar denominated products and investments, which are discussed in greater detail below. Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on equity Hedges of U.S. GAAP equity and available economic capital We also seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent equity in foreign subsidiaries through various hedging strategies. We are in the process of refining our current capital management framework, which includes available economic capital, as discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Financial Management of Capital, and as we further develop this framework, or as other events occur, we may alter this strategy. Available economic capital represents the excess of the fair value of assets over the fair value of liabilities for the current in force block of business. In our Japanese insurance operations we currently seek to hedge a portion of estimated available economic capital and other measures of value, including the amount attributable to the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations, which totaled $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 excluding Accumulated other comprehensive income components of equity and certain other adjustments. We hedge a portion of the estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations through a variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar denominated assets. These assets are financed with yen denominated liabilities and equity held in our Japanese insurance operations. In addition, we may also hedge estimated available economic capital using instruments held in our U.S. domiciled entities, such as U.S. dollar denominated debt that has been swapped to yen. In certain of our other foreign insurance operations, the U.S. GAAP equity exposure is mitigated by entering into forward currency contracts that generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and by holding U.S. dollar denominated investments. During the second quarter of 2009, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of our Korean operations due to a variety of considerations, including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from a strengthening Korean won. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the instruments serving as hedges of our estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations amounted to $7.0 billion, a decrease of $0.8 billion from the $7.8 billion hedged as of December 31, 2008. These instruments were principally comprised of available for sale U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $5.4 billion and held to maturity U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $0.7 billion held in our Japanese insurance operations, as well as $0.8 billion of net yen denominated liabilities held in our U.S. domiciled entities, including a portion that has been converted to yen using swaps. The effects of the yen denominated liabilities are reported in Corporate and Other operations. These amounts do not reflect the forward currency income hedging program or dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed above, which when added to the $7.0 billion of instruments serving as an equity hedge of a portion of the estimated available economic capital, results in a total estimated available economic capital hedge of approximately $9.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. In addition, as discussed below, we have $7.4 billion of U.S. dollar assets supporting U.S. dollar liabilities related to U.S. dollar denominated products issued by our Japanese operations, which when added to the $9.9 billion of total estimated available economic capital hedge, results in total U.S. dollar instruments of approximately $17.3 billion as of December 31, 2009. Available for sale investments under U.S. GAAP are carried at fair value with unrealized changes in fair value (except as described below for impairments), including those from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, recorded as unrealized gains or losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income within Equity. Changes in the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations due to foreign currency exchange rate movements are also recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income as a Foreign currency translation adjustments, and can serve as an offset to the unrealized changes in fair value of the available for sale investments. For the portion of available for sale investments that support our Japanese insurance operations U.S. GAAP equity this offset creates a natural equity hedge. For those U.S. dollar denominated investments, including available for sale investments, that support the portion of estimated available economic capital above our U.S. GAAP equity there is no offsetting impact to equity. In addition, the impact of foreign currency 120 Table of Contents exchange rate movements on the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations is partially offset by foreign currency exchange related changes in designated Yen denominated debt and other hedging instruments held in our U.S. domiciled entities and recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income as a Foreign currency translation adjustments. The investments designated as held to maturity under U.S. GAAP are recorded at amortized cost on the balance sheet, but are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded within Asset management fees and other income. The remeasurement related to the change in value for foreign currency exchange rate movements for these investments is excluded from adjusted operating income, as part of our application of the hedge of available economic capital. The U.S. dollar denominated investments that hedge a portion of our estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations pay a coupon, which is reflected within Net investment income, and, therefore, included in adjusted operating income, which is approximately 200 to 300 basis points greater than what a similar yen based investment would pay. The incremental impact of this higher yield on our U.S. denominated investments, as well as our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed above, will vary over time, and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investment, as well as interest rate environments in the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investment. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Investment Results for a discussion of the investment yields generated by our Japanese insurance operations. Because these U.S. dollar denominated investments are recorded on the books of yen based entities, foreign currency exchange movements will impact their value. To the extent the value of the yen strengthens as compared to the U.S. dollar, the value of these U.S. dollar denominated investments will decrease as a result of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Upon the ultimate sale or maturity of the U.S. dollar denominated investments, any realized change in value related to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates will be included in Realized investment gains (losses), net within the income statement and, excluded from adjusted operating income. Similarly, other than temporary impairments on these investments may include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which in certain circumstances will be included in Realized investment gains (losses), net within the income statement, and, as such, excluded from adjusted operating income. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of our policies regarding impairments. We seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will decrease the value of our U.S. dollar denominated investments and negatively impact the equity of our yen based entities by employing internal hedging strategies between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and certain of our yen based entities. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries for a discussion of our internal hedging strategies. We also incorporate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the remaining U.S. dollar denominated net asset position of our Japanese insurance operations, which primarily relates to accrued investment income, as part of our overall application of the hedge of available economic capital. These U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, as they are non yen denominated items on the books of yen based entities, and the related change in value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. As these U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are included in the determination of the Japanese insurance operations level of available economic capital, we exclude all remeasurement related to these items from adjusted operating income. In addition, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our international insurance operations also had $7.7 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, of foreign currency exposure from U.S. dollar liabilities for U.S. dollar denominated products issued by these operations. A portion of these liabilities are coinsured to our U.S. domiciled insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar denominated assets. For the U.S. dollar liabilities retained in Japan, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments, including a significant portion that are designated as available for sale, and other related U.S. dollar denominated net assets, primarily accrued investment income, to support these products. The change in value due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, or remeasurement, of the related U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities associated with these products is excluded from adjusted operating income. 121 Table of Contents International Insurance The results of our International Insurance operations are translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Insurance segment, where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations were derived by translating foreign currencies to U.S. dollars at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, including, for constant dollar information discussed below. The exchange rates used were Japanese yen at a rate of 99 yen per U.S. dollar and Korean won at a rate of 1040 won per U.S. dollar. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in U.S. dollars is reported based on the amounts as transacted in U.S. dollars. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the Sales Results section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates. Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues: Life Planner operations $ 6,443 $ 6,022 $ 5,414 Gibraltar Life 4,023 3,163 2,844 10,466 9,185 8,258 Benefits and expenses: Life Planner operations 5,222 4,897 4,394 Gibraltar Life 3,401 2,541 2,266 8,623 7,438 6,660 Adjusted operating income: Life Planner operations 1,221 1,125 1,020 Gibraltar Life 622 622 578 1,843 1,747 1,598 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (790 ) 149 366 Related charges(2) 56 27 (61 ) Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) 68 (370 ) (99 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) (68 ) 370 99 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5) 2 2 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 1,111 $ 1,923 $ 1,905 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of unearned revenue reserves. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges that represent the element of Dividends to policyholders that is based on a portion of certain realized investment gains required to be paid to policyholders and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. 122 Table of Contents (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before taxes and equity earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of Yamatos insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges are 20% in the first year and will decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Financial of Japan Life Insurance Company Ltd. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $96 million, from $1.125 billion in 2008 to $1.221 billion in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $5 million from currency fluctuations. This increase in adjusted operating income primarily reflects the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations, as well as more favorable mortality experience and improved investment income margins. The improved investment income margins primarily reflect investment portfolio growth in our U.S. dollar denominated products in Japan. In addition, adjusted operating income benefited by $21 million in 2009 due to the continuing migration to a new policy valuation system that resulted in favorable refinements in the current year. We anticipate completing this initiative in 2010. Partially offsetting these items was increased general and administrative expenses due primarily to $17 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income was $622 million in both 2008 and 2009, with no impact from currency fluctuations. Results for 2009 benefited from $36 million of earnings from the acquired former business of Yamato Life, as discussed above. The earnings from the acquired business include approximately $19 million related to initial surrenders of policies following the restructuring of business, essentially consistent with our overall expectations. Offsetting these items is a decline in expense and other margins, which reflects higher general and administrative expenses, due primarily to $14 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Results for 2009 also include net charges of $8 million due to the migration to a new policy valuation system that resulted in unfavorable refinements in the current period. We anticipate completing this initiative in 2010. In addition, adjusted operating income benefited in 2009 from higher earnings as a result of growth in our multi currency denominated fixed annuity products, partially offset by a decline in investment income margins reflecting actions taken to reduce our risk exposure. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $105 million, from $1.020 billion in 2007 to $1.125 billion in 2008, including a net unfavorable impact of $10 million from currency fluctuations, primarily reflecting the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operations. In addition, adjusted operating income in 2008 benefited from improved investment income margins, which reflect the benefits of various investment portfolio strategies, including duration lengthening and increased exposure to corporate securities. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income increased $44 million, from $578 million in 2007 to $622 million in 2008, including an unfavorable impact of $12 million from currency fluctuations. Results for 2007 benefited $15 million from investment income associated with a single investment joint venture, reflecting the sale of real estate within the venture. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and the foregoing investment income benefit to the prior year period, adjusted operating income for Gibraltar Life increased $71 million, reflecting improved investment income margins which reflect the benefits of various investment portfolio strategies, as discussed in more detail below, and the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product. In addition, results for 2008 benefited from more favorable mortality experience than that of the prior year. 123 Table of Contents Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1.281 billion, from $9.185 billion in 2008 to $10.466 billion in 2009, including a net favorable impact of $386 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $895 million, from $9.513 billion in 2008 to $10.408 billion in 2009. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $421 million, from $6.022 billion in 2008 to $6.443 billion in 2009, including a net favorable impact of $47 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $374 million, from $6.147 billion in 2008 to $6.521 billion in 2009. This increase in revenues came primarily from increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $229 million, from $5.116 billion in 2008 to $5.345 billion in 2009. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $193 million, from $3.684 billion in 2008 to $3.877 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting growth of business in force from new sales and continued strong persistency. Net investment income also increased $104 million, from $984 million in 2008 to $1.088 billion in 2009, primarily due to investment portfolio growth in our U.S. dollar denominated products in Japan. Revenues from Gibraltar Life increased $860 million, from $3.163 billion in 2008 to $4.023 billion in 2009, including a favorable impact of $339 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $521 million, from $3.366 billion in 2008 to $3.887 billion in 2009. This increase reflects a $454 million increase in premiums, from $2.251 billion in 2008 to $2.705 billion in 2009, as premiums benefited $156 million from additional face amounts of insurance issued pursuant to the final payment under a special dividend arrangement established as part of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization in 2001 for which 2008 includes no such benefit. Substantially all of the premiums recognized pursuant to the special dividend arrangement were offset by a corresponding charge to increase reserves for the affected policies. Also reflected in premiums is $97 million of renewal premiums from the acquisition of Yamato, as well as higher sales of single premium whole life during 2009. Due to the long term nature of many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to add duration exposure to our Japanese investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer term securities or, by entering into long duration floating to fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long dated product liabilities, and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. Based on an evaluation of market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, we terminated or offset many of these interest rate swaps in consideration of, among other things, the interest rate environment. The resulting realized investment gains from terminating or offsetting these interest rate swaps will be recognized in adjusted operating income over periods that generally approximate the expected terms of the derivatives. For 2009 and 2008, we recognized gains of $30 million and losses of $14 million, respectively, in adjusted operating income related to these realized investment gains (losses). As of December 31, 2009, $750 million of deferred gains remain to be recognized in adjusted operating income over a weighted average period of 31 years. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and we expect to resume implementing these hedging strategies in 2010 to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields upon the resumption of these strategies will depend on the then current interest rate environment. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $927 million, from $8.258 billion in 2007 to $9.185 billion in 2008, including a net favorable impact of $384 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $543 million, from $8.970 billion in 2007 to $9.513 billion in 2008. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $608 million, from $5.414 billion in 2007 to $6.022 billion in 2008, including a net favorable impact of $123 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $485 million from 2007 to 2008, primarily due to an increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $301 million, from $4.815 billion in 2007 to $5.116 billion in 2008. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $250 million, from $3.434 billion in 2007 to $3.684 billion in 2008. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Korean operation increased $25 million, from $1.053 billion in 2007 to $1.078 billion in 2008. The increase 124 Table of Contents in premiums and policy charges and fee income in both operations was primarily the result of growth in business in force from new sales and strong persistency. Net investment income also increased $152 million, from $832 million in 2007 to $984 million in 2008, due to higher portfolio yields from various investment portfolio strategies, including duration lengthening and increased exposure to corporate securities, and asset growth. Revenues from Gibraltar Life increased $319 million, from $2.844 billion in 2007 to $3.163 billion in 2008, including a favorable impact of $261 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $58 million, from $3.308 billion in 2007 to $3.366 billion in 2008. This increase reflects a $125 million increase in net investment income, from $889 million in 2007 to $1.014 billion in 2008, driven by the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated annuity product, as well as higher portfolio yields from various investment portfolio strategies including increased exposure to corporate securities, increased utilization of U.S. dollar denominated investments and duration lengthening. Premiums decreased $35 million from $2.286 billion in 2007 to $2.251 billion in 2008, driven primarily by a decrease in single pay premiums and lower renewal premiums reflecting the attrition of existing business. Our renewal premiums have declined as the market has continued to transition from traditional products, on which we record premiums, to newer products such as those with a retirement and savings objective, for which customer funds received are recorded as deposits. Benefits and Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1.185 billion, from $7.438 billion in 2008 to $8.623 billion in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $391 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $794 million, from $7.697 billion in 2008 to $8.491 billion in 2009. Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $325 million, from $4.897 billion in 2008 to $5.222 billion in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $52 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $273 million, from $5.004 billion in 2008 to $5.277 billion in 2009. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operations increased $241 million, from $3.421 billion in 2008 to $3.662 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses was increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and higher general and administrative expenses primarily as a result of business growth. Reflected in the higher general and administrative expenses is $17 million of expenses recorded in 2009 for the Life Planner operations related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $860 million, from $2.541 billion in 2008 to $3.401 billion in 2009, including an unfavorable impact of $339 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $521 million, from $2.693 billion in 2008 to $3.214 billion in 2009. This increase reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, of $369 million reflecting the effects of the special dividend arrangement discussed above, higher single premium whole life sales in 2009, and the acquisition of Yamato. Also contributing to this increase is higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to the continued growth of our multi currency denominated fixed annuity products and the increase in single premium whole life sales, as well as higher general and administrative expenses. Reflected in the higher general and administrative expenses is $14 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $30 million of non capitalizable costs during the first half of 2010 related to our on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems, as discussed above, with the vast majority of these expenditures to be recognized in our Gibraltar Life operations. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $778 million, from $6.660 billion in 2007 to $7.438 billion in 2008, including a net unfavorable impact of $406 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $372 million, from $7.325 billion in 2007 to $7.697 billion in 2008. 125 Table of Contents Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $503 million, from $4.394 billion in 2007 to $4.897 billion in 2008, including a net unfavorable impact of $133 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $370 million, from $4.634 billion in 2007 to $5.004 billion in 2008. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operations increased $256 million, from $3.165 billion in 2007 to $3.421 billion in 2008. Benefits and expenses from our Korean operation increased $61 million, from $1.006 billion in 2007 to $1.067 billion in 2008. The increase in benefits and expenses in both operations reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $275 million, from $2.266 billion in 2007 to $2.541 billion in 2008, including an unfavorable impact of $273 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $2 million, from $2.691 billion in 2007 to $2.693 billion in 2008. This increase reflects higher interest credited to policyholders account balances and higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs both related to the continued growth of our U.S. dollar denominated annuity product. Mostly offsetting these items is a decrease in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by more favorable mortality experience, as well as the attrition of existing business as discussed above. Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze revenues, as well as annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. Annualized new business premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis are as follows for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums: On an actual exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 833 $ 775 $ 788 Gibraltar Life 568 454 342 Total $ 1,401 $ 1,229 $ 1,130 On a constant exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 847 $ 793 $ 827 Gibraltar Life 557 469 382 Total $ 1,404 $ 1,262 $ 1,209 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $142 million, from $1.262 billion in 2008 to $1.404 billion in 2009. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $54 million, primarily due to higher sales in Korea and Taiwan mostly reflective of the improving economic environment. The increased sales in Korea also reflect higher sales in the fourth quarter in advance of price increases effective January 1, 2010. The number of Life Planners increased by 244, or 4%, from 6,365 as of December 31, 2008 to 6,609 as of December 31, 2009, driven by increases of 74 in Brazil, 63 in Taiwan, 59 in Poland, and 31 in Korea. During the same period, the number of Life Planners in Japan increased by 23, reflective of the transfer of 152 Life Planners to Gibraltar over the last twelve months, primarily in support of our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Life Planners would have increased 5%, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Prior to December 31, 2008, an additional 152 Japanese Life Planners were transferred to Gibraltar. 126 Table of Contents Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $88 million, primarily due to higher sales of protection products in our bank distribution channels. The number of Life Advisors increased by 68, from 6,330 as of December 31, 2008 to 6,398 as of December 31, 2009, as new hires and 54 Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as Life Advisors over the last twelve months were offset by resignations and terminations due to failure to meet minimum sales production standards. The remaining Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar, as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $53 million, from $1.209 billion in 2007 to $1.262 billion in 2008. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations decreased $34 million. Sales through the first nine months of 2008 were relatively flat, with growth in Japan offset by a decline in Korea reflecting the continued competitive market environment. However, due to the economic environment and concerns over U.S. financial institutions, sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 declined 12% from the prior year quarter, with declines in both Japan and Korea. The number of Life Planners increased 199, or 3%, from 6,166 as of December 31, 2007 to 6,365 as of December 31, 2008, driven by increases of 90 in Taiwan, 67 in Korea, and 29 in Argentina. During 2008, 70 Life Planners in Japan were transferred to Gibraltar primarily to support our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Life Planners in Japan would have increased 2%, from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, which reflects lower recruiting in Japan in the later part of 2008 due to a more selective screening process meant to further improve Life Planner retention and quality, as well as recruiting challenges posed by the economic environment. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $87 million, primarily reflecting strong sales of a new U.S. dollar denominated retirement income product launched in the first quarter of 2008, as well as higher sales of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity product and a new single premium yen denominated endowment product. The number of Life Advisors increased by 66, from 6,264 as of December 31, 2007 to 6,330 as of December 31, 2008, as we continue to focus on hiring practices to enhance retention and productivity. The Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors, as they sell only through the bank channel. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. Authorities in some jurisdictions regulate interest rates guaranteed in our insurance contracts. The regulated guaranteed interest rates do not necessarily match the actual returns on the underlying investments. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. With regulatory approval, guaranteed rates may be changed on new business. While these actions enhance our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products sold in Japan, other than those sold by Gibraltar Life, are margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality and morbidity tables. Our mortality and morbidity experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. 127 Table of Contents International Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 422 $ 262 $ 745 Expenses 379 594 489 Adjusted operating income 43 (332 ) 256 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (2 ) 2 1 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) (41 ) 290 (10 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ $ (40 ) $ 247 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. In February 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprise our Korean asset management operations. The net proceeds from this agreement are expected to be approximately equal to our book value. As a result of the agreement, which is subject to local regulatory approval, results of our Korean asset management operations will, commencing with first quarter of 2010 reporting, be excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods reported. Results of the International Investments segment include earnings of $17 million, $28 million and $114 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, related to the Korean asset management operations. On July 12, 2007, we sold our 50 percent interest in our operating joint ventures Oppenheim Pramerica Fonds Trust GmbH and Oppenheim Pramerica Asset Management S.a.r.l., which we accounted for under the equity method, to our partner Oppenheim S.C.A. for $121 million. These businesses establish, package and distribute mutual fund products to German and other European retail investors. We recorded a pre tax gain on the sale of $37 million, which is reflected in the adjusted operating income of our International Investments segment in 2007. In addition to the gain on sale, these businesses contributed $3 million of adjusted operating income to the results of the International Investments segment for the year ended December 31, 2007. On January 18, 2008, we made an additional investment of $154 million in our UBI Pramerica operating joint venture in Italy, which we account for under the equity method. This additional investment was necessary to maintain our ownership interest at 35 percent and was a result of the merger of our joint venture partner with another Italian bank, and their subsequent consolidation of their asset management companies into the UBI Pramerica joint venture. On July 1, 2008, we acquired a 40 percent interest in GAP Asset Management of Brazil, which we account for under the equity method as an operating joint venture. On May 25, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Mexican financial services group Grupo Actinver SA to sell our mutual fund and banking operations in Mexico. As a result, these operations are reflected as 128 Table of Contents discontinued operations for all periods presented. This transaction closed on October 6, 2009. We recorded a pre tax gain on the sale of $8 million, which is also reflected in discontinued operations. This transaction does not include our insurance business, our pension fund business or our real estate investments that are located in Mexico. Income (loss) from discontinued operations reflects $12 million, $(13) million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to these operations, including $13 million of goodwill impairments recorded in 2008, discussed below. Adjusted Operating Income 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $375 million, from a loss of $332 million in 2008 to income of $43 million in 2009, primarily reflecting prior year impairment charges of $426 million related to operating joint ventures and goodwill, as discussed below. Excluding these impairments, adjusted operating income decreased $51 million from the prior year. The decrease reflects lower results from the segments global commodities group due to less favorable sales and trading results and a lower benefit from market value changes on securities relating to exchange memberships in 2009, partially offset by a $19 million credit loss related to a brokerage client that was recorded in 2008. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income were lower results from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation, reflecting the conclusion of revenues received under an agreement with the Korean government. The adjusted operating income of our Korean asset management operation includes $3 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, of fee revenue from the Korean government under an agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of PISC, related to the provision of asset management and brokerage services, which agreement ended on February 27, 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $588 million, from income of $256 million in 2007 to a loss of $332 million in 2008, primarily reflecting impairment charges of $426 million related to operating joint ventures and goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment of $316 million to the carrying value of certain operating joint ventures associated with the segments asset management businesses. These operating joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and the impairments related to our joint ventures in Italy, Brazil and Mexico. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $110 million associated with the segments asset management businesses. Both the goodwill and joint venture impairments reflect the significant deterioration in financial market conditions that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008, which resulted in a decline in our anticipated future asset management and transaction based fees, and hence a decrease in the expected future earnings of the segments asset management businesses. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining carrying value of our operating joint ventures and goodwill was $304 million and $0 million, respectively, related to the segments asset management businesses. There are no operating joint ventures or goodwill associated with the segments global commodities group. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income is the benefit in 2007 of a $37 million gain from the sale of the segments Oppenheim joint ventures and a $17 million gain from recoveries related to a former investment of the segments Korean asset management operation. The decrease also reflects lower results from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation, as well as lower results from the segments global commodities group. The decrease in earnings for the global commodities group is driven by lower gains on securities relating to exchange memberships, which benefited 2007 by $42 million, while benefiting 2008 by $18 million, as well as a $19 million credit loss related to a brokerage client that was recorded in the first quarter of 2008. The adjusted operating income of our Korean asset management operation includes fee revenue from the Korean government under the agreement discussed above of $18 million and $17 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $160 million, from $262 million in 2008 to $422 million in 2009. Results for 2008 include impairment charges of $316 million related to operating joint ventures discussed above. Excluding these impairments, 129 Table of Contents revenues decreased $156 million, from $578 million in 2008 to $422 million in 2009, primarily reflecting lower revenues in the global commodities group. This decrease also reflects lower revenues from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $483 million, from $745 million in 2007 to $262 million in 2008, primarily reflecting the $316 million operating joint venture impairments discussed above. This decrease also reflects lower revenues from the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation, as well as the benefit to 2007 of the gain from the sale of Oppenheim and the gain from the recovery of a former investment, as discussed above. Partially offsetting this decrease were higher revenues in our global commodities group due to increased sales and trading activity, which more than offset the lower benefit in 2008 from securities relating to exchange memberships. Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $215 million, from $594 million in 2008 to $379 million in 2009, primarily reflecting the $110 million goodwill impairment in 2008 discussed above. This decrease also reflects lower expenses corresponding with the lower level of revenues generated by the global commodities group and the segments asset management businesses, primarily in our Korean operation. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Expenses increased $105 million, from $489 million in 2007 to $594 million in 2008, primarily reflecting the $110 million goodwill impairment discussed above. This increase also reflects the $19 million credit loss in our global commodities group and higher expenses corresponding with the higher level of revenues generated by the sales and trading activity of our global commodities group. Partially offsetting these items were lower expenses in the segments asset management businesses corresponding with the lower level of revenues generated by these businesses. 130 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to our business segments, and real estate and relocation services. Corporate operations consist primarily of: (1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities and deferred compensation; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) businesses that we have placed in wind down status but have not divested; and (8) the impact of transactions with other segments. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating results: Corporate Operations: Net investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense $ 57 $ 218 $ 302 Capital debt interest expense (495 ) (331 ) (229 ) Pension income and employee benefits 211 273 230 Other corporate activities (441 ) (368 ) (463 ) Total Corporate Operations(1) (668 ) (208 ) (160 ) Real Estate and Relocation Services (60 ) (189 ) 28 Adjusted operating income (728 ) (397 ) (132 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) 47 (409 ) (126 ) Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(1)(3) 2 Divested businesses(4) 2,131 (506 ) 274 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5) (2,311 ) 336 (391 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (861 ) $ (976 ) $ (373 ) (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. (2) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) See Divested Businesses. (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. The loss from corporate and other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, increased $331 million, from $397 million in 2008 to $728 million in 2009. The loss from corporate operations increased $460 million, from $208 million in 2008 to $668 million in 2009. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $161 million, primarily reflecting lower earnings from the investment of proceeds from our debt issuances, and other borrowings, which are invested in cash and short term investments, as well as lower yields on cash equivalents. Higher levels of short term liquidity have been maintained in 2009 to provide additional flexibility to address changing cash needs in view of volatile financial market conditions. The need to hold higher levels of short term liquidity, 131 Table of Contents coupled with the proceeds from the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, will result in higher than historical levels of cash and short term investments in Corporate and Other until such time as capital is deployed to our business segments or invested longer term. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense was also impacted by our repurchase, since December 2008, of substantially all of our convertible senior notes, the proceeds of which had been invested primarily in short term investments, as well as lower earnings on other invested assets. Capital debt interest expense increased $164 million due to a greater level of capital debt, which includes the issuance in June 2008 of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated notes and reflects the use of a portion of the proceeds from prior sales of retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes in 2009. Previously, these proceeds were used to support an asset portfolio within the Retirement segment for which the Company has employed a substitute funding source, as discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities. Also contributing to the greater loss from corporate operations in 2009 are increased losses from other corporate activities, which reflects an increase in our deferred compensation liabilities and other retained corporate expenses. The increased losses were partially offset by a decline in the level of costs related to our retained obligations to certain policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practice remediation. Both our deferred compensation liabilities and our retained obligations to certain policyholders are impacted by financial market conditions. Corporate operations pension income and employee benefits decreased $62 million. The decrease reflects increased post retirement benefit costs due to the amortization of prior year losses and lower investment returns due to the lower asset base reflective of market conditions in late 2008 and early 2009, partially offset by an increase in income from our qualified pension plan. Income from our qualified pension plan increased $18 million, from $290 million in 2008 to $308 million in 2009. For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2010, we will decrease the discount rate to 5.75% from 6.00% in 2009. The expected rate of return on plan assets will remain unchanged at 7.50% in 2010 and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%. We determined our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect on a consolidated basis income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted operating income in 2010, but at a level of about $10 million to $20 million higher than that of the year 2009. Other postretirement benefit expenses will decrease in a range of $5 million to $10 million. The decrease in other postretirement benefit expense is driven primarily by a change in the discount rate from 6.00% to 5.50%, and an increase in plan asset values, which was partially offset by a change in the expected rate of return from 8.00% to 7.50%. In 2010, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments. The loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of our real estate and relocation services business decreased $129 million, from $189 million in 2008 to $60 million in 2009. Results in 2008 include a goodwill impairment of $117 million, as discussed below. Excluding this impairment, the loss decreased $12 million, reflecting lower loan loss provisions and lower operating expenses, partially offset by lower royalty fees and lower relocation revenue from real estate referral fees primarily due to unfavorable residential real estate market conditions. Results for 2009 also include our share of the earnings from equity method investments, which include goodwill impairments recorded in 2009 within these entities. Certain of our clients utilize a fixed fee home sale program under which we assume the benefits and burdens of ownership with respect to a relocating employees home that is purchased by us, including carrying costs and any loss on sale. As of December 31, 2009, we held in unsold inventory homes with a net value of $53 million under this program. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $265 million, from a loss of $132 million in 2007 to a loss of $397 million in 2008. The greater loss in 2008 is primarily due to less favorable results in our real estate and relocation services business. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services business decreased $217 million, from income of $28 million in 2007 to a loss of $189 million in 2008. The loss in 2008 includes a goodwill impairment of $117 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. This impairment, which was all of the goodwill associated with this business, is reflective of the further deterioration of the U.S. housing market that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 and our view of 132 Table of Contents the timing of the future recovery of this market, which resulted in a decrease in the expected future earnings of this business. See Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Goodwill for further discussion of the assumptions and methodologies used to determine the goodwill impairment. Also contributing to the decline in adjusted operating income are lower royalty fees, increased bad debt reserves and lower relocation revenue from real estate referral fees and home sale transactions due to the less favorable residential real estate market conditions. Certain of our clients utilize a fixed fee home sale program under which we assume the benefits and burdens of ownership with respect to a relocating employees home that is purchased by us, including carrying costs and any loss on sale. As of December 31, 2008, we held in unsold inventory homes with a net value of $103 million under this program. Adjusted operating income from corporate operations decreased $48 million, from a loss of $160 million in 2007 to a loss of $208 million in 2008. Capital debt interest expense increased by $102 million due to increased borrowings, which includes the issuance in June 2008 of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated notes. In addition, corporate operations investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $84 million, primarily reflecting lower earnings from the investment of proceeds from our convertible debt issues, as discussed below, and lower yields on invested assets. Partially offsetting these items was the benefit from other corporate activities of $95 million, reflecting a decline in our deferred compensation liabilities and other compensation related items in 2008 versus the prior year, as well as lower costs associated with philanthropic activities and other retained corporate expenses. This benefit was partially offset by increased costs related to our retained obligations relating to policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practices remediation. Both our deferred compensation liabilities and our retained obligations to certain policyholders are impacted by financial market conditions. The $2 billion November 2005 convertible debt securities, for which investment of proceeds in fixed income securities contributed to results of 2007, were repaid in May 2007. The proceeds from our $2 billion December 2006 convertible debt issuance were used to fund an investment portfolio of fixed income securities until December 2007, which also benefited results of the prior year. These proceeds, as well as the remaining proceeds from our $3 billion December 2007 convertible debt issuance, were invested primarily in short term investments or used to support operating needs in lieu of other short term borrowings. In December 2008, we repurchased substantially all of our $2 billion December 2006 convertible debt issuance. In December 2008, we also repurchased, in individually negotiated transactions, $853 million of our $3 billion December 2007 convertible debt issuance, which notes were offered to us by certain holders. The 2007 notes were repurchased at a discount resulting in a pre tax gain of $32 million, which is included in other corporate activities. Corporate operations pension income and employee benefits increased $43 million, which primarily reflects the impact of census and other demographic assumption updates to our post retirement and post employment benefit plans. Income from our qualified pension plan decreased $76 million, from $366 million in 2007 to $290 million in 2008, reflecting the impact of the transfer in April 2007 of $1 billion in plan assets within the qualified pension plan under Section 420 of the Internal Revenue Code from assets supporting pension benefits to assets supporting retiree medical benefits. However, as a result of the transfer, the decline in income from our qualified pension plan was offset by a corresponding decline in other postretirement benefit expenses. Results of Operations of Closed Block Business We established the Closed Block Business effective as of the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See Overview Closed Block Business for additional details. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. Although Closed Block experience for dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum 133 Table of Contents future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. As of January 1, 2009, the Company recognized an adjusted cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation of $851 million to Closed Block policyholders for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings, which reflects a cumulative adjustment of $418 million related to the Companys adoption of the revised authoritative guidance for the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments, effective January 1, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, actual cumulative earnings are below the expected cumulative earnings by $601 million, thereby eliminating the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. Furthermore, the accumulation of net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block, are not sufficient to overcome the cumulative earnings shortfall and therefore, the policyholder dividend obligation balance as of December 31, 2009 remains at zero. Operating Results Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess the operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business U.S. GAAP results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) U.S. GAAP results: Revenues $ 5,245 $ 7,059 $ 7,981 Benefits and expenses 5,725 7,043 7,691 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (480 ) $ 16 $ 290 Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $496 million, from income of $16 million in 2008 to a loss of $480 million in 2009. Results for 2009 include a decrease of $1.300 billion in net realized investment gains (losses), from gains of $15 million in 2008 to losses of $1.285 billion in 2009, primarily due to a net decrease in the market value of derivatives used in duration management programs. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Net investment income, net of interest expense, decreased $199 million, primarily related to lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and reinvestments at lower yields, as well as a decrease in income on joint ventures and limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity method. These decreases to income were partially offset by a decrease of $348 million in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders, primarily due to a decrease in the dividend scales for 2009 and 2010. In addition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $46 million reflecting the impact of investment losses on actual gross margins for the period compared to the previously estimated expected gross margins for the period. During 2009, the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation was reduced from $851 million to zero, and was a partial offset to the decline in earnings as discussed above. In 2008, the change in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend 134 Table of Contents obligation of $299 million was an offset to the decline in earnings in the period. As noted above, as of December 31, 2009 actual cumulative earnings are below the expected cumulative earnings by $601 million. There will be no cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation until this amount is recovered. Without the benefit of the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation, Closed Block Business earnings could continue to be volatile primarily due to changes in investment results. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $274 million, from $290 million in 2007 to $16 million in 2008. Results for 2008 include a decrease of $574 million in net realized investment gains, from $589 million in 2007 to $15 million in 2008. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Net investment income, net of interest expense, decreased $301 million, primarily related to lower yields and a decrease in income on joint ventures and limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity method. These decreases to income were partially offset by a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders, primarily due to a decrease in the 2009 dividend scale. The impact of these items contributed to actual cumulative earnings which, when compared to the expected cumulative earnings, resulted in a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $548 million from 2007, compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $433 million. Revenues 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $1.814 billion, from $7.059 billion in 2008 to $5.245 billion in 2009, principally driven by the $1.300 billion decrease in net realized investment gains (losses) and a decrease of $243 million in net investment income, as discussed above. In addition, premiums declined, with a related decrease in changes in reserves, primarily due to a lower amount of dividends used by policyholders to purchase additional insurance, as a result of the 2009 and 2010 dividend scale reductions, and to a lesser extent, the expected in force decline as policies terminate. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $922 million, from $7.981 billion in 2007 to $7.059 billion in 2008, principally driven by the $574 million decrease in net realized investment gains and a decrease of $368 million in net investment income, as discussed above. Benefits and Expenses 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, decreased $1.318 billion, from $7.043 billion in 2008 to $5.725 billion in 2009. This decline included a $900 million decrease in dividends to policyholders reflecting a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $552 million, as well as a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $348 million, primarily due to a decrease in the dividend scales. Policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $325 million driven by a decline in premiums, as discussed above. In addition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased reflecting the impact of investment losses on actual gross margins for the period compared to the previously estimated expected gross margins for the period. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $648 million, from $7.691 billion in 2007 to $7.043 billion in 2008. This decrease included a $609 million decline in dividends to policyholders reflecting a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $548 million, as well as a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $61 million, primarily due to a decrease in the 2009 dividend scale, partially offset by the 2008 dividend scale increase, a higher dividend accumulation crediting rate and normal growth. 135 Table of Contents Income Taxes Shown below is our income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax provision that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods. Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Tax provision $ 21 $ (487 ) $ 1,220 Impact of: Low income housing and other tax credits 68 82 67 Non taxable investment income 177 52 269 Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate 15 16 68 State and local taxes (2 ) 8 (21 ) Repatriation assumption change (66 ) Change in valuation allowance 32 Non deductible expenses 3 (1 ) (10 ) Non deductible goodwill impairment (83 ) Expiration of statute of limitations and related interest 272 Other 61 14 14 Tax provision excluding these items $ 549 $ (399 ) $ 1,639 Tax provision at statutory rate $ 549 $ (399 ) $ 1,639 We adopted the revised authoritative guidance for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes on January 1, 2007. For additional information regarding the adoption of this guidance, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our income tax provision amounted to an income tax expense of $21 million in 2009 compared to a benefit of $487 million in 2008. The increase in income tax expense primarily reflects the increase in pre tax income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, the 2009 income tax expense includes a reduction to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest of $272 million, primarily related to tax years prior to 2002 as a result of the expiration of the statute of limitations for the 2002 and 2003 tax years. In addition, current year income taxes include the benefit from a revision of the estimated income taxes for 2008, based upon the filing of the 2008 federal income tax return in the third quarter. The 2008 income tax benefit of $487 million reflects the benefit of the dividends received deduction as well as the impact of a lower level of earnings. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP. Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $19 million, $18 million and $20 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional information regarding discontinued operations see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 136 Table of Contents Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these divested businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the results of these divested businesses that have been excluded from adjusted operating income is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Financial Advisory $ 2,167 $ (351 ) $ 300 Commercial mortgage securitization operations (12 ) (158 ) (63 ) Other(1) (24 ) 3 37 Total divested businesses excluded from adjusted operating income $ 2,131 $ (506 ) $ 274 (1) Primarily includes Property and Casualty Insurance, Prudential Securities Capital Markets and exchange shares previously held by Prudential Equity Group. Financial Advisory In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This business consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. At the closing, we received $4.5 billion in cash as the purchase price of our joint venture interest and de recognized the carrying value related to our investment in the joint venture. Results for 2009 include the associated pre tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion, which is reflected in Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Results for 2009 also include certain one time costs related to the sale of the joint venture interest of $104 million, for pre tax compensation costs and costs related to increased contributions to our charitable foundation. For more information on our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, including the lookback option, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries Prudential Securities Group. On August 15, 2008, Wachovia announced that it had reached an agreement in principle for a global settlement of investigations concerning the underwriting, sale and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities by subsidiaries of Wachovia Securities and had recorded an increase to legal reserves. Our recorded share of pre tax earnings from the joint venture for the year ended December 31, 2008 included $355 million related to the impact of this item on our share of the equity earnings of the joint venture. Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, were previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment. As of December 31, 2009, our commercial mortgage securitization operations held a loan with a principal balance of $14 million, whose fair value continues to be subject to changes in credit spreads. The losses in 2008 and 2009 primarily reflect net realized and unrealized losses on the loans, bonds and hedges from instability in the commercial mortgage backed securities market. 137 Table of Contents Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, are experience rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading and are carried at fair value. These trading investments are reflected on the statements of financial position as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in Net investment income. Commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the statements of financial position as Commercial mortgage and other loans. Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains and losses on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience rated contracts, which are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders. Results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include the recognition of net investment gains of $1.601 billion, net investment losses of $1.734 billion, and net investment gains of zero million, respectively, on Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. These net investment gains and losses primarily represent interest rate related mark to market adjustments, which include the impact of changes in credit spreads on fixed maturity securities. Consistent with our treatment of Realized investment gains (losses), net, these gains and losses, which are expected to ultimately accrue to the contractholders, are excluded from adjusted operating income. In addition, results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include an increase of $899 million, and decreases of $1.163 billion and $13 million, respectively, in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments that support these experience rated contracts. These liability changes are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances and are also excluded from adjusted operating income. Net investment gains and losses net of the increase / decrease in contractholder liabilities due to these asset valuation changes resulted in net gains of $702 million in 2009 and net losses of $571 million in 2008. This primarily reflects timing differences between the recognition of the interest rate related mark to market adjustments and the recognition of the recovery of these mark to market adjustments in future periods through subsequent increases in asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. Decreases to these contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes are limited by certain floors and therefore do not reflect cumulative declines in recorded asset values of $35 million as of December 31, 2009 and $645 million as of December 31, 2008. We have recovered and expect to recover in future periods these declines in recorded asset values through subsequent increases in recorded asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. In addition, as prescribed by U.S. GAAP, changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans held in our general account, other than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in value are reflected as a change in the liability to fully participating contractholders in the current period. Included in the amounts above related to the change in the liability to contractholders as a result of commercial mortgage and other loans are increases of $105 million, decreases of $144 million, and increases of $40 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 138 Table of Contents Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities The authoritative guidance related to fair value established a framework for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these levels. The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, split between the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, by fair value hierarchy level. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis presented on a consolidated basis. Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ $ 4,623 $ $ $ 4,623 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 789 789 Foreign government bonds 40,481 31 40,512 Corporate securities 5 63,304 534 63,843 Asset backed securities 2,895 3,753 6,648 Commercial mortgage backed securities 7,051 305 7,356 Residential mortgage backed securities 8,823 100 8,923 Sub total 5 127,966 4,723 132,694 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 128 128 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 31 31 Foreign government bonds 517 517 Corporate securities 9,419 83 9,502 Asset backed securities 576 281 857 Commercial mortgage backed securities 1,888 5 1,893 Residential mortgage backed securities 1,412 20 1,432 Equity securities 700 232 3 935 Short term investments and cash equivalents 338 387 725 Sub total 1,038 14,590 392 16,020 Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 95 95 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions Foreign government bonds 24 24 Corporate securities 15 188 34 237 Asset backed securities 867 84 951 Commercial mortgage backed securities 109 27 136 Residential mortgage backed securities 146 12 158 Equity securities 306 136 24 466 All other activity 13 4,731 297 (4,242 ) 799 Sub total 334 6,296 478 (4,242 ) 2,866 Equity securities, available for sale 1,107 2,336 367 3,810 Commercial mortgage and other loans 114 338 452 Other long term investments 36 5 498 539 Short term investments 2,544 2,510 5,054 Cash and cash equivalents 5,502 3,939 9,441 Other assets 2,391 62 16 2,469 Sub total excluding separate account assets 12,957 157,818 6,812 (4,242 ) 173,345 Separate account assets(3) 88,888 72,292 12,894 174,074 Total assets $ 101,845 $ 230,110 $ 19,706 $ (4,242 ) $ 347,419 Future policy benefits 55 55 Long term debt 429 429 Other liabilities 4,764 6 (3,841 ) 929 Total Liabilities $ $ 4,764 $ 490 $ (3,841 ) $ 1,413 139 Table of Contents Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ $ 3,645 $ $ $ 3,645 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 586 586 Foreign government bonds 681 16 697 Corporate securities 27,335 368 27,703 Asset backed securities 980 2,610 3,590 Commercial mortgage backed securities 3,662 3,662 Residential mortgage backed securities 2,644 4 2,648 Sub total 39,533 2,998 42,531 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions Foreign government bonds Corporate securities 122 122 Asset backed securities 27 13 40 Commercial mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed securities Equity Securities 5 5 All other activity Sub total 5 149 13 167 Equity securities, available for sale 2,901 158 26 3,085 Commercial mortgage and other loans Other long term investments 61 61 Short term investments 1,017 321 1,338 Cash and cash equivalents 169 529 698 Other assets 114 11 125 Sub total excluding separate account assets 4,092 40,865 3,048 48,005 Separate account assets(3) Total assets $ 4,092 $ 40,865 $ 3,048 $ $ 48,005 Future policy benefits Long term debt Other liabilities Total Liabilities $ $ $ $ $ (1) The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 6% and 6% for Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 4% for our Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. (2) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. (3) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 140 Table of Contents Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale $ $ 117,393 $ 1,760 $ $ 119,153 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 748 12,982 145 13,875 Other trading account assets 143 9,774 1,384 (7,085 ) 4,216 Equity securities, available for sale 1,548 1,818 299 3,665 Commercial mortgage and other loans 517 56 573 Other long term investments 246 54 1,015 1,315 Short term investments 1,614 1,377 2,991 Cash and cash equivalents 2,379 7,014 9,393 Other assets 1,255 2,500 26 3,781 Sub total excluding separate account assets 7,933 153,429 4,685 (7,085 ) 158,962 Separate account assets(3) 56,362 70,953 19,780 147,095 Total assets $ 64,295 $ 224,382 $ 24,465 $ (7,085 ) $ 306,057 Future policy benefits 3,229 3,229 Long term debt 324 324 Other liabilities (16 ) 6,692 138 (5,948 ) 866 Total Liabilities $ (16 ) $ 6,692 $ 3,691 $ (5,948 ) $ 4,419 Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale $ $ 38,394 $ 509 $ $ 38,903 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Other trading account assets 108 12 120 Equity securities, available for sale 2,253 121 26 2,400 Commercial mortgage and other loans Other long term investments 211 211 Short term investments 987 497 1,484 Cash and cash equivalents 133 1,820 1,953 Other assets Sub total excluding separate account assets 3,373 41,151 547 45,071 Separate account assets(3) Total assets $ 3,373 $ 41,151 $ 547 $ $ 45,071 Future policy benefits Long term debt Other liabilities 73 1 74 Total Liabilities $ 73 $ $ 1 $ $ 74 (1) The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 8% and 1% for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 3% for the Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. (2) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. (3) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. For additional information regarding the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value by hierarchy level see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, can have a significant impact on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, the determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities may require the application of a greater degree of judgment given recent market conditions, as the ability to value assets and liabilities can be 141 Table of Contents significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity or a lack of transactions executed in an orderly manner. For a description of the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections provide additional information regarding certain assets and liabilities of our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business which are valued using Level 3 inputs and could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Information regarding Separate Account Assets is excluded as the risk of assets for these categories is ultimately borne by our customers and policyholders. Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Public fixed maturity securities included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy are generally priced based on internally developed valuations or non binding broker quotes. Despite the dislocated markets and low levels of liquidity in 2008 and 2009, except for our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as discussed below, the pricing we received from independent pricing services was not materially different from our internal estimates of current market value for the remainder of our public fixed maturity portfolio. As a result, for public fixed maturity securities we generally continued to use the price provided by the independent pricing services under our normal pricing protocol. Securities with prices based on validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2. For certain private fixed maturity and equity securities, the discounted cash flow or other valuation model uses significant unobservable inputs. Such securities are also included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2009 our Level 3 fixed maturity securities included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a fair value of $5,667 million. As discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we reported fair values for these sub prime securities which were net $618 million higher than the estimated fair values received from third party pricing services or brokers, based on our determination that as of December 31, 2009, the market for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages was an inactive market. We considered both third party pricing information and an internally developed price based on a discounted cash flow model in determining the fair value of certain of these securities. Based on the unobservable inputs used in the discounted cash flow model and the limited observable market activity, these securities were included in Level 3. The $618 million net increase in fair value included $588 million relating to available for sale securities, with $350 million related to securities attributable to our Financial Services Businesses and $238 million related to securities attributable to our Closed Block Business. The increase to the fair value of these available for sale securities resulted in a corresponding increase, net of taxes, to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net. The remaining $30 million increase in fair value related to trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities in our Financial Services Business, and resulted in a corresponding increase in Asset management fees and other income. Excluding these asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, as of December 31, 2009 about $1.1 billion of Level 3 fixed maturity securities were public fixed maturities, with values primarily based on non binding broker quotes, and about $1.5 billion were private fixed maturities, with values primarily based on internally developed models. Significant unobservable inputs used included: issue specific credit adjustments, material non public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cash flows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and non binding quotes from market makers. These inputs are usually considered unobservable, as not all market participants will have access to this data. As of December 31, 2008 we classified approximately $122 million of our investments in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as Level 3, primarily reflecting securities valued based on non binding broker quotes. The vast majority of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages were valued as of December 31, 2008 using information from independent pricing services, and were included in Level 2. Overall, about half of our Level 3 fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2008 were public fixed maturities, with values primarily based on non binding broker quotes, and about half were private fixed maturities, with values primary based on internally developed models. For additional information regarding our holdings of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, see, Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. While the fair value of these investments 142 Table of Contents are in a significant unrealized loss position due to increased credit spreads and illiquidity in the financial markets, we believe the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than that reflected by their current fair value. The impact our determination of fair value for fixed maturity and equity securities has on our results of operations is dependent on our classification of the security as either trading, available for sale, or held to maturity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. Our investments classified as held to maturity are carried at amortized cost. Other Long Term Investments The fair value of real estate held in consolidated investment funds is determined through an independent appraisal process. The appraisals generally utilize a discounted cash flow model, following an income approach that incorporates various assumptions including rental revenue, operating expenses and discount rates. These appraisals and the related assumptions are updated at least annually, and incorporate historical property experience and any observable market data, including any market transactions. Since many of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the valuation, the real estate investments within other long term investments have been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Consolidated real estate investment funds classified as Level 3 as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 totaled approximately $0.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. Our direct investment in these funds is not material, and the majority of the assets recorded as a result of the consolidation of these funds is offset by a noncontrolling interest reflected as a separate component of equity. The noncontrolling interest is not considered to be fair value and therefore is not included in fair value reporting above. Derivative Instruments Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets, within Other trading account assets, or Other long term investments, or as liabilities, within Other liabilities, except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair values of derivative contracts are determined based on quoted prices in active exchanges or through the use of valuation models, and are affected by changes in market factors including non performance risk. The majority of our derivative positions are traded in the over the counter, or OTC, derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy since they have bid and ask prices that are actively quoted or can be readily obtained from external market data providers. Our policy is to use mid market pricing consistent with our best estimate of fair value. The bid ask spreads for OTC derivatives classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are generally wider than derivatives classified within Level 2 thus requiring more judgment in estimating the mid market price of such derivatives. Derivatives classified as Level 3 include first to default credit basket swaps, look back equity options and other structured products. These derivatives are valued based upon models with some significant unobservable market inputs or inputs from less actively traded markets. OTC derivatives classified within Level 3 are validated through periodic comparison of our fair values to broker dealer values. The fair values of OTC derivative assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $288 million and $6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and $1.3 billion and $140 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008, without giving consideration to the impact of netting. For additional information regarding embedded derivatives in our annuity and retirement products classified as Level 3, see Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features below. All realized and unrealized changes in fair value of dealer and non dealer related derivatives, with the exception of the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, are recorded in current earnings. Generally, the changes in fair value of non dealer related derivatives, excluding those that qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. For additional information regarding the impact of changes in fair value of derivative instruments on our results of operations see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses below. 143 Table of Contents Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features Our liability for future policy benefits includes general account liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts, including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (GMIWB). While these guarantees primarily relate to the optional living benefit features of our Individual Annuities segment, they are also included in certain variable annuities in our International Insurance segment and certain retirement account based group variable annuities in our Retirement segment. These benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally developed models with option pricing techniques. The significant assumptions utilized in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit features are primarily unobservable; therefore the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. We are required to incorporate our own risk of non performance in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit features. Since insurance liabilities are senior to debt, we believe that reflecting the claims paying ratings of our insurance subsidiaries in the valuation of the liability appropriately takes into consideration our own risk of non performance. To reflect the markets perception of our own risk of non performance, we incorporate an additional spread over LIBOR into the discount rate used in the valuations of the embedded derivative liabilities. The additional spread over LIBOR rates incorporated into the discount rate as of December 31, 2009 generally ranged from 75 to 150 basis points for the portion of the interest rate curve most relevant to these liabilities. For 2009, our adjustment for the markets perception of our non performance risk resulted in a $312 million pre tax benefit to our Individual Annuities segment, reflecting the additional spread over LIBOR we incorporated into the discount rate used in the valuations of the embedded derivative liabilities beginning in the first quarter of 2009 to reflect changes in the markets perception of our non performance risk. In addition, 2009 includes charges of $110 million in our Individual Annuities segment related to an update of the actuarial and capital markets assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives. These charges were primarily driven by a reduction in the expected lapse rate assumption based on actual experience, partially offset by a further update to our market volatility assumptions to reflect the inclusion of new market inputs, as well as updated assumptions for other actuarial and capital markets inputs. Our market volatility assumptions are no longer based solely on the implied volatility of over the counter equity options, but consider an index that is based both on implied and historical market volatilities. The change in fair value of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB resulted in a decrease in the total liability of $3,174 million for 2009, primarily reflecting a decrease in future expected benefit payments, resulting from an increase in policyholder account balance due to equity market appreciation, an increase in LIBOR interest rates used in the discount rate, and the update of our market perceived non performance risk assumption discussed above. These changes were significantly offset by increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and changes in value of related hedging instruments, primarily in our Individual Annuities segment as described in more detail under Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses Realized investment gains and losses are generated from numerous sources, including the sale of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other types of investments, as well as adjustments to the cost basis of investments for other than temporary impairments. 144 Table of Contents Realized investment gains and losses are also generated from prepayment premiums received on private fixed maturity securities, recoveries of principal on previously impaired securities, provisions for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans, fair value changes on commercial mortgage loans carried at fair value, and fair value changes on embedded derivatives and free standing derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, except those derivatives used in our capacity as a broker or dealer. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity other than temporary impairments, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities below. The level of other than temporary impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is generally expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. Historically, the causes of other than temporary impairments have been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in impairments to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. However, as discussed in more detail below, certain of the other than temporary impairments recognized for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 relate to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and reflect the overall deterioration of the housing market. We may realize additional credit and interest rate related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. In light of unprecedented market conditions, and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy of certain portfolios. In the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios. Other than temporary impairments, interest rate related losses and credit related losses on sales (other than those related to certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors) are excluded from adjusted operating income. We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as well as the interest rate environment. We use interest rate and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. We use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our non U.S. businesses. We also use equity based derivatives to hedge the equity risks embedded in some of our annuity products. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to be announced mortgage backed securities primarily related to our mortgage dollar roll program. Many of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and consequently, we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily account for the related assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our derivative activities can contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income. Adjusted operating income excludes Realized investment gains (losses), net, (other than those representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings, current period yield adjustments, or product derivatives and the effect of any related economic hedging program) and related charges and adjustments. 145 Table of Contents The following tables set forth Realized investment gains (losses), net, by investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for the periods indicated. For additional details regarding adjusted operating income, which is our measure of performance for the segments of our Financial Services Businesses, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net: Financial Services Businesses $ (1,611 ) $ (2,414 ) $ 24 Closed Block Business (1,285 ) 15 589 Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net $ (2,896 ) $ (2,399 ) $ 613 Financial Services Businesses: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity securities $ (822 ) $ (1,646 ) $ (64 ) Equity securities (402 ) (941 ) 297 Derivative instruments 171 339 (336 ) Other (558 ) (166 ) 127 Total (1,611 ) (2,414 ) 24 Related adjustments(1) (40 ) 147 (65 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments $ (1,651 ) $ (2,267 ) $ (41 ) Related charges(2) $ (88 ) $ 45 $ (52 ) Closed Block Business: Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed maturity securities $ (381 ) $ (451 ) $ 182 Equity securities (473 ) (441 ) 337 Derivative instruments (298 ) 958 61 Other (133 ) (51 ) 9 Total $ (1,285 ) $ 15 $ 589 (1) Related adjustments include that portion of Realized investment gains (losses), net, that are included in adjusted operating income, including those pertaining to certain derivative contracts, as well as those that represent profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors. Related adjustments also include that portion of Asset management fees and other income that are excluded from adjusted operating income, including the change in value due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure, realized and unrealized gains and losses on certain general account investments classified as other trading account assets, as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these related adjustments. (2) Reflects charges that are related to realized investment gains (losses), net, and excluded from adjusted operating income, as described more fully in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 146 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2009 were $1,611 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $2,414 million in 2008. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $822 million in 2009, compared to net realized losses of $1,646 million in 2008, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 789 $ 466 Private bond prepayment premiums 19 33 Total gross realized investment gains 808 499 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(1) (1,174 ) (1,679 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(2) (319 ) (354 ) Credit related losses on sales (137 ) (112 ) Total gross realized investment losses (1,630 ) (2,145 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (822 ) $ (1,646 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(2) $ 470 $ 112 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $470 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales of government bonds in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations and sales within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales of fixed maturity securities in our Individual Annuities segment were primarily due to transfers of investments out of our general account and into separate accounts relating to an automatic rebalancing element embedded in the living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $112 million in 2008, were primarily related to sales of government bonds in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2009 and 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized losses on equity securities were $402 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $389 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $13 million. Net trading losses in 2009 were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life operations. Net realized losses on equity securities were $941 million in 2008, of which other than temporary impairments were $815 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $126 million. Net trading losses in 2008 were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life and Life Planner operations. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized gains on derivatives were $171 million in 2009, compared to net realized gains of $339 million in 2008. The net derivative gains in 2009 primarily reflect net gains of $376 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain variable annuity contracts, net of the impact of our hedging program, mainly in our Individual Annuities Segment. This benefit was driven by a market perceived increase in our own risk of non performance. For additional information regarding these embedded derivatives and our hedging programs, 147 Table of Contents see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Also contributing to the net derivative gains in 2009 were gains of $196 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net gains of $87 million on mark to market adjustments from credit derivatives. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $376 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net losses of $121 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. The net derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $985 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration, net gains of $226 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments in our domestic investment portfolio and net gains of $124 million related to equity market hedges used in our asset management business. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $621 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net losses of $456 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. For information regarding our externally managed investments in the European market, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. Net realized losses on other investments were $558 million in 2009, primarily related to $317 million of increases to commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves. The remaining $241 million of net realized losses on other investments was primarily driven by mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our commercial mortgage operations and losses on investment real estate in our asset management operations, as well as $48 million of other other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $166 million in 2008, primarily related to mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our divested commercial mortgage securitization operations due to instability in the commercial real estate market during 2008. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. During 2009 we recorded other than temporary impairments of $1,611 million in earnings, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $2,533 million recorded in earnings in 2008. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 1,022 $ 1,549 Private fixed maturity securities 152 130 Total fixed maturity securities 1,174 1,679 Equity securities 389 815 Other invested assets(2) 48 39 Total $ 1,611 $ 2,533 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investment real estate and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 653 $ 321 $ 974 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 15 185 200 Total $ 668 $ 506 $ 1,174 148 Table of Contents (1) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and amounts related to foreign currency translation losses for securities approaching maturity. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturity Securities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 265 $ 476 $ 741 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 705 233 938 Total $ 970 $ 709 $ 1,679 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily driven by declines in value of fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance and circumstances where we lack the ability or intent to retain the security to recovery. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by credit spread increases, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $50 million related to American International Group, or AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the Japanese equity markets and value declines in our mutual fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. As mentioned above, fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. In addition, 2008 also included a $75 million loss associated with this bankruptcy filing relating to the unsecured portion of our counterparty exposure on derivative transactions we had entered into with Lehman Brothers and its affiliates. We replaced these derivative positions with various other counterparties. The loss was included in Asset management fees and other income, under the broker dealer accounting model followed by our affiliated derivative subsidiary that executed these transactions, and was excluded from adjusted operating income as a related adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 149 Table of Contents Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment losses in 2009 were $1,285 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $15 million in 2008. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $381 million in 2009, compared to net realized losses of $451 million in 2008, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 199 $ 537 Private bond prepayment premiums 19 27 Total gross realized investment gains 218 564 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(1) (520 ) (718 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(2) (72 ) (259 ) Credit related losses on sales (7 ) (38 ) Total gross realized investment losses (599 ) (1,015 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (381 ) $ (451 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(2) $ 127 $ 278 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $127 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $72 million in 2009, declined in comparison to $259 million of such losses in 2008, primarily due to the restriction of our active trading policies, as discussed below. There were no gross losses on sales or maturities in 2009 or 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. In light of the unprecedented market conditions and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we curtailed our active trading policy. Starting in the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios. These restrictions resulted in a lower level of realized gains and losses in this portfolio than might otherwise have been incurred. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $278 million in 2008 were also primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized losses on equity securities were $473 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $613 million, partially offset by net trading gains on sales of equity securities of $140 million. These gains reflect improved equity markets throughout 2009 coupled with the current equity trading strategy which produced gains as the year progressed. Net realized losses on equity securities were $441 million in 2008, of which other than temporary impairments were $387 million, and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $54 million. Net trading losses for 2008 reflect sales pursuant to our active management strategy, which was curtailed or partially restricted for 2009, as discussed above. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized losses on derivatives were $298 million in 2009, compared to net realized gains of $958 million in 2008. Derivative losses in 2009 primarily reflect net mark to market losses of $218 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio and net losses of $149 million related to currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these losses 150 Table of Contents were net gains of $52 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $824 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net gains of $149 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these gains are net losses of $105 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Net realized losses on other investments were $133 million in 2009, including $51 million of other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships investments. The remaining $82 million was primarily related to increases to commercial mortgage loan loss reserves. Net realized losses on other investments were $51 million in 2008, including $22 million related to other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. During 2009 we recorded other than temporary impairments of $1,184 million in earnings, compared to other than temporary impairments of $1,127 million recorded in earnings in 2008. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 465 $ 690 Private fixed maturity securities 55 28 Total fixed maturity securities 520 718 Equity securities 613 387 Other invested assets(2) 51 22 Total $ 1,184 $ 1,127 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized bySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 319 $ 189 $ 508 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 3 9 12 Total $ 322 $ 198 $ 520 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. 151 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized bySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 137 $ 179 $ 316 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 326 76 402 Total $ 463 $ 255 $ 718 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in the fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the finance, services and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by credit spread increases, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $16 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $30 million related to AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the equity markets. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily based on the extent and duration of the decline in value, as equity markets only partially recovered in the latter portion of 2009. 2008 to 2007 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2008 were $2,414 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $24 million in 2007. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $1,646 million in 2008, compared to net realized losses of $64 million in 2007, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 466 $ 265 Private bond prepayment premiums 33 40 Total 499 305 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (354 ) (219 ) Other than temporary impairments (1,679 ) (139 ) Credit related losses on sales (112 ) (11 ) Total (2,145 ) (369 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (1,646 ) $ (64 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 112 $ 46 (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. 152 Table of Contents Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $354 million in 2008 were primarily due to lower prices resulting from credit spread widening and liquidity concerns. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $219 million in 2007, mainly in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, were primarily related to credit spread increases in the credit markets resulting generally from concerns over sub prime mortgage exposures, and interest rates. The gross losses in 2007 include $76 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized losses on equity securities were $941 million in 2008, of which net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $126 million, and other than temporary impairments were $815 million. Net trading losses were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life and Life Planner operations. Net realized gains on equity securities were $297 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $340 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $43 million. Net realized gains on equity securities in 2007 were primarily due to sales of Japanese equities in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations from portfolio restructuring and equity sales in our Korean Life Planner operations. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized gains on derivatives were $339 million in 2008, compared to net realized losses of $336 million in 2007. The net derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $985 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration, net gains of $226 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments in our domestic investment portfolio and net gains of $124 million related to equity market hedges used in our asset management business. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $621 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net losses of $456 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. The net derivative losses in 2007 primarily reflect net losses of $171 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market, net losses of $66 million from interest rate derivative contracts mainly used to manage the duration of the U.S. dollar fixed maturity investment portfolio, and net losses of $77 million due to the impact of increased credit spreads on credit derivatives used to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure. For information regarding our externally managed investments in the European market, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. Net realized losses on other investments were $166 million in 2008, primarily related to mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our divested commercial mortgage securitization operations due to instability in the commercial mortgage backed securities market during 2008. For additional information regarding these operations, see Divested Businesses. Net realized losses on other investments in 2008 included $39 million of other than temporary impairments on investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Net realized gains on other investments were $127 million in 2007, primarily related to gains from real estate related investments. During 2008 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $2,533 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $185 million attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2007. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Financial Services Businesses Public fixed maturity securities $ 1,549 $ 123 Private fixed maturity securities 130 16 Total fixed maturity securities 1,679 139 Equity securities 815 43 Other invested assets(1) 39 3 Total $ 2,533 $ 185 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. 153 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities Financial Services Businesses Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 265 $ 476 $ 741 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 705 233 938 Total $ 970 $ 709 $ 1,679 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by credit spread widening as discussed above, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $50 million related to AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the Japanese equity markets and value declines in our mutual fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and finance sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $65 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. As mentioned above, fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2008 also included a $75 million loss associated with this bankruptcy filing relating to the unsecured portion of our counterparty exposure on derivative transactions we had entered into with Lehman Brothers and its affiliates. We replaced these derivative positions with various other counterparties. The loss was included in Asset management fees and other income, under the broker dealer accounting model followed by our affiliated derivative subsidiary that executed these transactions, and was excluded from adjusted operating income as a related adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2008 were $15 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $589 million in 2007. 154 Table of Contents Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $451 million in 2008, compared to net realized gains of $182 million in 2007, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses) Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities $ 537 $ 467 Private bond prepayment premiums 27 39 Total 564 506 Gross realized investment losses: Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (259 ) (262 ) Other than temporary impairments (718 ) (48 ) Credit related losses on sales (38 ) (14 ) Total (1,015 ) (324 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (451 ) $ 182 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Investments(1) $ 278 $ 205 (1) Amounts exclude credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $278 million in 2008 were primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $259 million in 2008 were primarily due to lower prices resulting from credit spread widening and liquidity concerns. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. In light of the unprecedented current market conditions and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, as discussed above, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we curtailed our active trading policy, which resulted in a lower level of realized losses in this portfolio than might otherwise have been incurred. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $205 million in 2007 were also primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $262 million in 2007 included $11 million related to sales of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily in the second half of 2007. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized losses on equity securities were $441 million in 2008, of which net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $54 million, and other than temporary impairments were $387 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $337 million in 2007, of which net trading gains on equity securities were $369 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $32 million. Results for both periods reflect sales pursuant to our active management strategy. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 and 2007. Net realized gains on derivatives were $958 million in 2008, compared to $61 million in 2007. Derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $824 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net gains of $149 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these gains are net losses of $105 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Derivative gains in 2007 primarily reflect the impact of interest derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio partially offset by net losses on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $51 million in 2008, including $22 million related to other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships. Net realized gains on other investments were $9 million in 2007. 155 Table of Contents During 2008 we recorded total other than temporary impairments of $1,127 million attributable to the Closed Block Business, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $86 million attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2007. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments Closed Block Business Public fixed maturity securities $ 690 $ 29 Private fixed maturity securities 28 19 Total fixed maturity securities 718 48 Equity securities 387 32 Other invested assets(1) 22 6 Total $ 1,127 $ 86 (1) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to real estate investments and investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized bySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities Closed Block Business Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 137 $ 179 $ 316 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 326 76 402 Total $ 463 $ 255 $ 718 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in the fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by general credit spread widening as discussed above, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $16 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $30 million related to AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the equity markets. Other than temporary impairments in 2007 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the services and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by credit spread increases as discussed above, interest rates, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Included in the other than temporary impairments recorded on fixed maturities in 2007 are $15 million of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, primarily recorded in the second half of 2007. General Account Investments We maintain a diversified investment portfolio in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general 156 Table of Contents liabilities. Our general account does not include: (1) assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and (2) assets of our asset management operations, including assets managed for third parties, and (3) those assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet. The general account portfolio is managed pursuant to the distinct objectives and investment policy statements of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints; and for certain portfolios, maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of their major products. Our strategies for maximizing the portfolio book yield of the Financial Services Businesses include: (1) the investment of proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments, and operating cash flows, into optimally yielding investments, and (2) where appropriate, the sale of the portfolios lower yielding investments, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolios duration, credit, currency and other risk constraints, all while minimizing the amount of taxes on realized capital gains. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders; and maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business. In light of the current market and economic conditions, while we continue to look to maximize book yield and match the liability characteristics of our major products, our portfolio management approach now reflects a greater consideration of the capital and tax implications of portfolio activity, as well as our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery, and our lack of any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery. In consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy previously employed in the Closed Block Business and certain portfolios of the Financial Services Businesses. Starting in the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios, and continue to evaluate trading strategies for these portfolios. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments, including our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery and any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities, below. Management of Investments We design asset mix strategies along with significant derivative strategies for our general account to match the characteristics of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management, strategic and tactical asset allocations and derivative strategies within a disciplined risk management framework. Derivative strategies are employed within our risk management framework to help manage duration gaps and other risks between assets and liabilities. For certain of our businesses, in recent years the use of interest rate swaps to increase the duration of the investment portfolio has increased as the duration of the investment portfolio excluding the impact of derivatives has declined. Within these businesses, the investment portfolio duration has generally declined relative to the liabilities as a result of purchases of fixed income securities with shorter duration than the duration of the liabilities we have issued and holding higher overall levels of short term investments and cash to provide additional liquidity in response to changing cash needs. For a discussion of our risk management process see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments, and Other Than Trading Activities Insurance and Annuity Products Asset/Liability Management. 157 Table of Contents Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Asset Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those managed by our International Insurance segment, under the direction and oversight of the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally, within enterprise risk constraints, in some cases using the international and domestic asset management capabilities of our International Investments or Asset Management segments. The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions periodically. Our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups develop the investment policy for the general account assets of our insurance subsidiaries, oversee the investment process for our general account and have the authority to initiate tactical shifts within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. The Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups work closely with each of our business units to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into their processes and to develop investment objectives, including performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: interest crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance; participating individual and experience rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as GICs. We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest sensitive products successfully through several market cycles. Portfolio Composition Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our Asset Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. The following tables set forth the composition of the investments of our general account apportioned between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 111,268 $ 29,537 $ 140,805 55.7 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 4,009 4,009 1.6 Private, available for sale, at fair value 19,424 12,994 32,418 12.8 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 1,111 1,111 0.5 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 16,020 16,020 6.3 Other trading account assets, at fair value 1,616 167 1,783 0.7 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 3,798 3,085 6,883 2.7 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 21,281 8,363 29,644 11.7 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 4,728 5,418 10,146 4.0 Other long term investments(1) 2,811 1,545 4,356 1.7 Short term investments(2) 4,302 1,338 5,640 2.3 Total general account investments 190,368 62,447 252,815 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 7,737 7,737 Total investments $ 198,105 $ 62,447 $ 260,552 158 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 98,725 $ 27,424 $ 126,149 54.8 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,002 3,002 1.3 Private, available for sale, at fair value 18,568 11,479 30,047 13.0 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 806 806 0.4 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 13,875 13,875 6.0 Other trading account assets, at fair value 728 120 848 0.4 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 3,659 2,400 6,059 2.6 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 22,092 8,748 30,840 13.4 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 4,280 5,423 9,703 4.2 Other long term investments(1) 3,035 1,629 4,664 2.0 Short term investments(2) 2,874 1,484 4,358 1.9 Total general account investments 171,644 58,707 230,351 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 11,674 11,674 Total investments $ 183,318 $ 58,707 $ 242,025 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures (other than our investment in operating joint ventures, which included our investment in Wachovia Securities as of December 31, 2008) and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Short term investments have virtually no sub prime exposure. (3) Includes invested assets of brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. As of December 31, 2009, the average duration of our general account investment portfolio attributable to the domestic Financial Services Businesses, including the impact of derivatives, is between 4 and 5 years. The increase in general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2009 was primarily a result of a net increase in fair value driven by credit spread tightening, portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income, the impact of foreign currency, the investment of proceeds from our debt and equity issuances in the second and third quarters of 2009, and the acquisition of Yamato Life. The increase in general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2009 was primarily due to a net increase in fair value driven by credit spread tightening and portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income, partially offset by net operating outflows. We have substantial insurance operations in Japan, with 36% and 35% of our Financial Services Businesses general account investments relating to our Japanese insurance operations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our Japanese insurance operations general account as of the dates indicated. December 31,2009 December 31,2008 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 50,406 $ 42,223 Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 4,009 3,002 Private, available for sale, at fair value 2,671 2,803 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 1,111 806 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 1,236 1,077 Other trading account assets, at fair value 804 519 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 1,508 2,071 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 3,675 3,373 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 1,760 1,547 Other long term investments(1) 1,524 2,143 Short term investments 313 266 Total Japanese general account investments(2) $ 69,017 $ 59,830 159 Table of Contents (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivatives, and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Excludes assets classified as Separate accounts assets on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2009 the average duration of our general account investment portfolio related to our Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, is approximately 11 years. The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2009 is primarily attributable to a net increase in fair value driven by credit spread tightening, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, portfolio growth as a result of business inflows, and the acquisition of Yamato Life. For additional information regarding our acquisition of Yamato Life see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Japanese insurance operations use the yen as their functional currency, as it is the currency in which they conduct the majority of their operations. Although the majority of the Japanese general account is invested in yen denominated investments, our Japanese insurance operations also hold significant investments denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, our Japanese insurance operations had $14.4 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $0.5 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $7.4 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2008, our Japanese insurance operations had $13.5 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $1.1 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $6.0 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. Investment Results The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.54 % $ 5,691 6.06 % $ 2,382 4.90 % $ 8,073 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.11 743 5.11 743 Equity securities 6.32 225 2.85 77 4.82 302 Commercial mortgage and other loans 5.85 1,237 6.68 556 6.08 1,793 Policy loans 5.19 225 6.54 344 5.93 569 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.54 66 3.02 31 0.71 97 Other investments 3.16 138 (4.01 ) (72 ) 1.06 66 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.50 8,325 5.68 3,318 4.78 11,643 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (218 ) (0.23 ) (140 ) (0.17 ) (358 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.35 % 8,107 5.45 % 3,178 4.61 % 11,285 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 136 136 Total investment income $ 8,243 $ 3,178 $ 11,421 160 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.86 % $ 5,662 6.40 % $ 2,664 5.26 % $ 8,326 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.34 749 5.34 749 Equity securities 5.01 223 3.17 101 4.24 324 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.01 1,241 6.60 541 6.18 1,782 Policy loans 5.24 208 6.42 336 5.91 544 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.82 304 10.67 101 3.17 405 Other investments 4.26 140 (2.92 ) (44 ) 2.01 96 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.93 8,527 6.05 3,699 5.22 12,226 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (295 ) (0.24 ) (278 ) (0.17 ) (573 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.78 % 8,232 5.81 % 3,421 5.05 % 11,653 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 228 228 Total investment income $ 8,460 $ 3,421 $ 11,881 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. See below for a discussion of the change in the Financial Services Businesses yields. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets, higher losses from investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships, driven by depreciation and losses on the underlying assets, and lower income from short term investments as a result of lower short term rates. The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of the Financial Services Business general account, excluding the Japanese operations portion of the general account which is presented separately below, for the periods indicated. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 5.73 % $ 4,172 6.06 % $ 4,348 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.38 721 5.61 726 Equity securities 9.84 167 7.73 150 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.04 1,070 6.22 1,097 Policy loans 5.94 162 5.87 158 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.53 55 2.89 283 Other investments 0.39 9 0.03 1 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.27 6,356 5.75 6,763 Investment expenses (0.14 ) (110 ) (0.13 ) (188 ) Investment income after investment expenses 5.13 % 6,246 5.62 % 6,575 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 136 228 Total investment income $ 6,382 $ 6,803 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term 161 Table of Contents investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the non Japanese operations portion of the Financial Services Businesses portfolio for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in fixed maturity yields as a result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and a shift in asset mix stemming from enterprise risk constraints. Short term yields decreased as a result of lower short term rates. The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our Japanese operations general account for the periods indicated. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 2.88 % $ 1,519 2.95 % $ 1,314 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 1.97 22 2.10 23 Equity securities 3.13 58 2.91 73 Commercial mortgage and other loans 4.86 167 4.76 144 Policy loans 3.91 63 3.92 50 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.62 11 2.26 21 Other investments 6.27 129 8.77 139 Gross investment income before investment expenses 3.05 1,969 3.21 1,764 Investment expenses (0.16 ) (108 ) (0.19 ) (107 ) Total investment income 2.89 % $ 1,861 3.02 % $ 1,657 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. The decrease in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio for 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily attributable to lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates, including the reinvestment of proceeds realized from certain capital actions and a lower short term interest rate environment both in the U.S. and Japan. The U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable Japanese fixed maturities. The average value of U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts for 2009 and 2008 was approximately $10.1 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, based on amortized cost. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Mix Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. The fixed maturity securities relating to our international insurance operations are primarily comprised of foreign government securities. We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups and, in the case of our international insurance portfolios, to a profile that also 162 Table of Contents reflects the local market environment. The investment objectives for fixed maturity securities are consistent with those described above. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments. We use our private placement and asset backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has directly originated more than half of our annual private placement originations. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2010 $ 3,999 3.0 % $ 2,243 5.3 % Maturing in 2011 5,406 4.0 1,998 4.7 Maturing in 2012 6,599 4.9 1,812 4.3 Maturing in 2013 8,168 6.0 2,861 6.7 Maturing in 2014 9,052 6.7 2,116 5.0 Maturing in 2015 6,206 4.6 2,014 4.7 Maturing in 2016 5,982 4.4 1,537 3.6 Maturing in 2017 5,758 4.3 1,519 3.6 Maturing in 2018 6,015 4.5 1,832 4.3 Maturing in 2019 and beyond 77,707 57.6 24,592 57.8 Total Fixed Maturities $ 134,892 100.0 % $ 42,524 100.0 % 163 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Industry(1) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 19,959 $ 1,007 $ 669 $ 20,297 $ 19,018 $ 435 $ 2,098 $ 17,355 Utilities 11,527 623 252 11,898 10,770 265 1,017 10,018 Finance 10,581 237 543 10,275 9,793 124 1,084 8,833 Services 8,841 380 459 8,762 8,930 102 1,409 7,623 Energy 4,749 263 186 4,826 4,592 75 579 4,088 Transportation 3,479 168 82 3,565 3,387 74 239 3,222 Retail and Wholesale 3,405 144 144 3,405 3,377 42 388 3,031 Other 961 16 77 900 1,000 26 117 909 Total Corporate Securities 63,502 2,838 2,412 63,928 60,867 1,143 6,931 55,079 Foreign Government(3) 40,053 1,505 126 41,432 32,986 2,338 62 35,262 Residential Mortgage Backed 9,547 345 88 9,804 10,688 336 114 10,910 Asset Backed Securities 8,855 119 1,444 7,530 10,863 90 2,467 8,486 Commercial Mortgage Backed 7,747 251 170 7,828 8,506 3 1,657 6,852 U.S. Government 4,389 313 122 4,580 3,185 750 12 3,923 State & Municipal 799 16 27 788 597 24 8 613 Total(4)(5) $ 134,892 $ 5,387 $ 4,389 $ 135,890 $ 127,692 $ 4,684 $ 11,251 $ 121,125 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes $211 million of gross unrealized gains and $133 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009, compared to $157 million of gross unrealized gains and $133 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 on securities classified as held to maturity. (3) As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 86% and 87%, respectively, represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance operations, with no other individual country representing more than 6% of the balance. (4) Excluded from the above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. (5) The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Trading Account Assets for additional information. The change in unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to credit spreads tightening across most asset classes and other than temporary impairments recognized, partially offset by an increase in risk free rates. 164 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Industry(1) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 8,191 $ 500 $ 142 $ 8,549 $ 8,791 $ 188 $ 905 $ 8,074 Utilities 5,773 358 78 6,053 5,608 126 526 5,208 Services 4,346 241 97 4,490 4,467 69 590 3,946 Finance 3,354 91 59 3,386 2,455 32 232 2,255 Energy 1,926 132 17 2,041 1,963 16 229 1,750 Retail and Wholesale 1,621 123 22 1,722 1,716 32 149 1,599 Transportation 1,430 74 42 1,462 1,413 23 163 1,273 Other Total Corporate Securities 26,641 1,519 457 27,703 26,413 486 2,794 24,105 Asset Backed Securities 4,602 36 1,048 3,590 5,737 44 1,690 4,091 Commercial Mortgage Backed 3,662 47 47 3,662 3,858 2 672 3,188 U.S. Government 3,821 71 247 3,645 2,998 603 1 3,600 Residential Mortgage Backed 2,571 117 40 2,648 3,110 100 109 3,101 Foreign Government(2) 637 69 9 697 582 44 49 577 State & Municipal 590 12 16 586 240 5 4 241 Total(3) $ 42,524 $ 1,871 $ 1,864 $ 42,531 $ 42,938 $ 1,284 $ 5,319 $ 38,903 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, no individual foreign country represents more than 8% and 8%, respectively of the balance. (3) The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See Other Trading Account Assets for additional information. The change in unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to credit spreads tightening across most asset classes and other than temporary impairments recognized, partially offset by an increase in risk free rates. Asset Backed Securities Included within asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses are securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. While there is no market standard definition, we define sub prime mortgages as residential mortgages that are originated to weaker quality obligors as indicated by weaker credit scores, as well as mortgages with higher loan to value ratios, or limited documentation. The significant deterioration of the U.S. housing market, high interest rate resets, higher unemployment levels, and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub prime mortgages have led to higher delinquency rates, particularly for those mortgages issued in 2006 and 2007. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). 165 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 15 11 13 6 373 418 548 2006 16 103 27 107 537 790 1,538 2005 4 6 6 16 35 2004 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 35 120 40 113 916 1,224 2,121 All other portfolios 2009 2008 2007 1 14 276 291 268 2006 19 135 54 46 1,000 1,254 1,265 2005 70 80 84 255 489 565 2004 & Prior 48 310 230 116 308 1,012 1,137 Total all other portfolios 68 529 364 246 1,839 3,046 3,235 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2) 103 649 404 359 2,755 4,270 5,356 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market(3) 98 393 19 510 934 Collateralized by auto loans 519 19 3 31 6 578 1,492 Collateralized by credit cards 548 17 585 3 1,153 760 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 1,154 78 9 41 19 1,301 1,051 Other asset backed securities(4) 199 426 54 117 247 1,043 1,270 Total asset backed securities(5) $ 2,523 $ 1,172 $ 585 $ 1,526 $ 3,049 $ 8,855 $ 10,863 166 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 14 8 12 6 260 300 405 2006 16 88 25 94 432 655 1,284 2005 4 6 5 15 31 2004 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 34 102 37 100 697 970 1,720 All other portfolios 2009 2008 2007 1 7 174 182 158 2006 16 94 22 22 684 838 709 2005 54 52 50 141 297 324 2004 & Prior 40 229 148 68 208 693 673 Total all other portfolios 57 384 222 140 1,207 2,010 1,864 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 91 486 259 240 1,904 2,980 3,584 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market(3) 103 408 19 530 941 Collateralized by auto loans 522 20 3 29 6 580 1,421 Collateralized by credit cards 591 17 550 3 1,161 454 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 1,168 77 8 37 17 1,307 1,073 Other asset backed securities(4) 198 394 47 108 225 972 1,013 Total asset backed securities(5) $ 2,570 $ 977 $ 437 $ 1,372 $ 2,174 $ 7,530 $ 8,486 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, commercial paper issuances and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $4.3 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2009 are $0.5 billion of securities collateralized by second lien exposures. (3) As of December 31, 2009, includes the $(205) million impact of the bifurcated embedded derivative described below. (4) As of December 31, 2009, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $448 million and fair value of $431 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, timeshares, aircraft, and franchises. (5) Excluded from the tables above are asset backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding asset backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are asset backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Trading Account Assets for additional information regarding these securities. The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2009, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, and Fitch. In making our investment decisions, rather than relying solely on the rating agencies evaluations, we assign internal ratings to our asset backed securities based upon our dedicated asset backed securities units independent evaluation of the underlying collateral and securitization structure, including any guarantees from monoline bond insurers. The following table sets forth the percentage, based on amortized cost, of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by lowest rating agency rating, as of the dates indicated. 167 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities Collateralized by Sub prime Mortgages Financial Services Businesses Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow December 31, 2008 22 % 22 % 13 % 22 % 21 % March 31, 2009 6 % 18 % 14 % 18 % 44 % June 30, 2009 4 % 17 % 12 % 10 % 57 % September 30, 2009 3 % 15 % 9 % 9 % 64 % December 31, 2009 2 % 15 % 10 % 8 % 65 % The changes in the ratings above reflect the impact of both paydowns in the senior tranches and rating agency downgrade activity generally consistent with the continued collateral deterioration. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses decreased from $5.356 billion as of December 31, 2008 to $4.270 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized, partially offset by the increase in amortized cost resulting from our adoption of new authoritative guidance related to other than temporary impairments of debt securities on January 1, 2009. For additional information regarding our adoption of this guidance, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $1.293 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.781 billion as of December 31, 2008. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, including the impact of our determination that the market for these securities was an inactive market, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 29% as of December 31, 2009. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, approximately 70% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 40% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.270 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009 were $1.054 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. The $510 million of externally managed investments in the European market, included above in asset backed securities of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009, reflects our investment in medium term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of European fixed income securities, including 44% European corporate and bank bonds, 24% bank capital, 11% European asset backed securities, and 21% other, as well as derivatives and varying degrees of leverage. Our investment in these notes further diversifies our credit risk. As of December 31, 2009 none of the underlying investments are securities collateralized by U.S. sub prime mortgages, and 80% of the underlying investments are rated investment grade. The notes have a stated coupon and provide a return based on the return of the underlying portfolios and the level of leverage. The notes are accounted for as available for sale fixed maturity securities with bifurcated embedded derivatives (total return swaps). Changes in the value of the fixed maturity securities are reported in Stockholders Equity under the heading Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Changes in the market value of the embedded total return swaps are included in current period earnings in Realized 168 Table of Contents investment gains (losses), net. As discussed further in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, any changes in market value of the embedded total return swaps are excluded from adjusted operating income. The fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with these investments increased during 2009 due to the impact of credit spread tightening on the underlying investments. As of December 31, 2009 the embedded derivatives remain in a $205 million loss position on a cumulative basis as a result of the stress experienced in the credit markets. However, we believe the investment fundamentals remain sound, and the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than reflected by the current fair value of the embedded derivatives. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008 and continuing through 2009, we restructured certain of these investments, which are now included as direct holdings in our portfolio, primarily classified within Other trading account assets, at fair value. Included within asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business are securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, as defined above. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 13 12 13 6 259 303 386 2006 16 106 28 109 413 672 1,354 2005 4 6 7 17 31 2004 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 33 124 41 115 679 992 1,771 All other portfolios 2009 2008 2007 27 10 1 1 268 307 318 2006 100 38 53 852 1,043 1,116 2005 17 146 53 60 104 380 442 2004 & Prior 27 336 76 73 201 713 791 Total all other portfolios 171 492 168 187 1,425 2,443 2,667 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2) 204 616 209 302 2,104 3,435 4,438 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 151 54 342 2 549 453 Collateralized by auto loans 103 10 10 123 270 Externally managed investments in the European market(3) 99 99 198 148 Collateralized by education loans 81 20 101 192 Other asset backed securities(4) 43 49 24 5 75 196 236 Total asset backed securities $ 582 $ 695 $ 386 $ 758 $ 2,181 $ 4,602 $ 5,737 169 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalFair Value (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 12 8 12 6 186 224 290 2006 16 91 26 96 336 565 1,143 2005 4 6 5 15 27 2004 & Prior Total enhanced short term portfolio 32 105 38 102 527 804 1,460 All other portfolios 2009 2008 2007 19 5 170 194 206 2006 67 25 27 553 672 623 2005 14 122 36 27 56 255 267 2004 & Prior 22 243 56 51 150 522 478 Total all other portfolios 122 370 117 105 929 1,643 1,574 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 154 475 155 207 1,456 2,447 3,034 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 160 50 326 2 538 242 Collateralized by auto loans 104 11 9 124 254 Externally managed investments in the Europeanmarket(3) 108 110 218 186 Collateralized by education loans 81 13 94 178 Other asset backed securities(4) 44 45 23 5 52 169 197 Total asset backed securities(5) $ 543 $ 544 $ 336 $ 657 $ 1,510 $ 3,590 $ 4,091 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $3.4 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2009 are $0.2 billion of securities collateralized by second lien exposures. (3) As of December 31, 2009, includes the $(84) million impact of the embedded derivative described below. (4) As of December 31, 2009, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $69 million and fair value of $60 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by equipment leases, timeshares, aircraft and franchises. (5) Excluded from the table above are asset backed securities classified as other trading and carried at fair value. For additional information see Other Trading Account Assets. 170 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage, based on amortized cost, of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business by lowest rating agency rating, as of the dates indicated. Asset Backed Securities Collateralized by Sub prime Mortgages Closed Block Business Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow December 31, 2008 26 % 25 % 10 % 18 % 21 % March 31, 2009 9 % 20 % 9 % 13 % 49 % June 30, 2009 7 % 19 % 8 % 10 % 56 % September 30, 2009 6 % 18 % 6 % 9 % 61 % December 31, 2009 6 % 18 % 6 % 9 % 61 % The changes in the ratings above reflect the impact of both paydowns in the senior tranches and rating agency downgrade activity generally consistent with the continued collateral deterioration. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business decreased from $4.438 billion as of December 31, 2008 to $3.435 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business were $988 million as of December 31, 2009 and $1.405 billion as of December 31, 2008. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, including the impact of our determination that the market for these securities was an inactive market, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 31% as of December 31, 2009. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, approximately 74% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 43% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $3.435 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009 were $1.051 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. The $198 million of externally managed investments in the European market, included in asset backed securities of the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009, reflects our investment in medium term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of European fixed income securities, as described above. The notes are accounted for as available for sale fixed maturity securities with bifurcated embedded derivatives (total return swaps). The fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with these investments increased during 2009 due to the impact of credit spread tightening on the underlying investments. As of December 31, 2009 the embedded derivatives remain in a $84 million loss position on a cumulative basis as a result of the stress experienced in the credit markets. However, we believe the investment fundamentals remain sound, and the ultimate value that will be realized from these investments is greater than reflected by the current fair value of the embedded derivatives. 171 Table of Contents Residential Mortgage Backed Securities As of December 31, 2009, on an amortized cost basis, $9.475 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities in the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Of these pass through securities, $7.865 billion are supported by the U.S. government, and $1.610 billion are supported by foreign governments. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $39 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represent the remaining $72 million of residential mortgage backed securities (and less than 1% of total fixed maturities in the Financial Services Businesses), of which 43% have credit ratings of A or above, 16% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 41% have below investment grade ratings. As of December 31, 2009, on an amortized cost basis, $2.266 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities in the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit U.S. government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $125 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represent the remaining $305 million of residential mortgage backed securities (and 1% of total fixed maturities in the Closed Block Business), of which 58% have A credit ratings or above, and 42% have below investment grade ratings. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, along with an overall decrease in liquidity and availability of capital have led to a very difficult refinancing environment and an increase in the overall delinquency rate on commercial mortgages in the commercial mortgage backed securities market. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the overall economic downturn continue to put additional pressure on these fundamentals through rising vacancies, falling rents and falling property values. In addition, we have observed several market factors related to commercial mortgage backed securities issued in 2006 and 2007, including less stringent underwriting, higher levels of leverage and collateral valuations that are generally no longer realizable. To ensure our investment objectives and asset strategies are maintained, we consider these market factors in making our investment decisions on securities in these vintages. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 176 20 56 79 331 341 2007 1,575 29 101 1,705 1,842 2006 2,798 274 63 10 3,145 3,389 2005 1,503 32 12 13 1,560 1,585 2004 & Prior 851 119 21 10 5 1,006 1,349 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2)(3)(4) $ 6,903 $ 425 $ 104 $ 107 $ 208 $ 7,747 $ 8,506 172 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 163 20 53 70 306 293 2007 1,620 28 81 1,729 1,393 2006 2,855 270 56 9 3,190 2,695 2005 1,559 31 0 11 13 1,614 1,288 2004 & Prior 856 108 16 6 3 989 1,183 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2) $ 7,053 $ 409 $ 92 $ 98 $ 176 $ 7,828 $ 6,852 (1) The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2009, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, Fitch, and Realpoint. (2) Excluded from the table above are available for sale commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for additional information regarding these securities. (3) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2009 are commercial mortgage backed securities collateralized by Non U.S. properties with amortized cost of $12 million in AAA, none in AA, $20 million in A, $97 million in BBB and $203 million in BB and below. (4) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2009 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $346 million in AA and $63 million in A. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 32% as of December 31, 2009. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage includes an adjustment for that portion of the capital structure, which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, approximately 92% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 76% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage backed securities collateralized by U.S. and Non U.S. properties, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2009, by rating and vintage. U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2009 % % % % % 2008 34 2007 31 2006 31 31 30 2005 29 31 2004 & Prior 29 25 10 8 173 Table of Contents Non U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2009 % % % % % 2008 6 1 10 2007 5 3 2006 7 2005 14 4 2004 & Prior The super senior structure was introduced to the U.S. commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and was modified in early 2005 to increase subordination from 20% to 30%. With the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities structure in 2005, there became three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. The super senior class has priority over the mezzanine and junior classes to all principal cash flows (repayments, prepayments and recoveries on defaulted loans). As a result, all super senior bonds must be completely repaid before the mezzanine or junior bonds receive any principal cash flows. In addition, the super senior bonds will not experience any loss of principal until both the entire mezzanine and junior bonds are written down to zero. We believe the importance of this additional credit enhancement afforded to the super senior class over the mezzanine and junior classes is limited in a benign commercial real estate cycle with low defaults but becomes more significant in a deep commercial real estate downturn under which expected losses increase substantially. In addition to enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The super senior class is generally structured such that shorter duration time tranches have priority over longer duration time tranches as to all principal cash flows (repayments, prepayments, and recoveries on defaulted loans) until the deal reaches 30% cumulative net loss, at which point all super senior securities are paid pro rata. As a result, short of reaching 30% cumulative net losses, the shorter duration super senior tranches must be completely repaid before the longest duration super senior tranche receives any principal cash flows. We have generally focused our purchases of recent vintage commercial mortgage backed securities on shorter duration super senior tranches that we believe have sufficient priority to ensure that in most scenarios our positions will be fully repaid prior to the structure reaching the 30% cumulative net loss threshold. The following tables set forth the amortized cost of our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2009 Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranche) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 176 176 2007 1,575 1,575 2006 1,769 1,016 1 12 2,798 2005 649 835 1 18 1,503 2004 & Prior 57 157 388 235 14 851 Total $ 4,226 $ 2,008 $ $ $ 388 $ 237 $ 44 $ 6,903 174 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost TotalDecember 31,2008 (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 15 15 10 2007 431 4 435 437 2006 779 62 11 852 882 2005 1,248 22 1,270 1,282 2004 & Prior 1,007 40 42 1 1,090 1,247 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2) $ 3,480 $ 124 $ 53 $ 1 $ 4 $ 3,662 $ 3,858 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue TotalDecember 31,2008 (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 15 15 9 2007 438 4 442 326 2006 773 59 10 842 689 2005 1,252 22 1,274 1,051 2004 & Prior 1,017 33 39 1,089 1,113 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 3,495 $ 114 $ 49 $ $ 4 $ 3,662 $ 3,188 (1) The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2009, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, Fitch, and Realpoint. (2) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2009 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $87 million in AA and $11 million in A. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business was 29% as of December 31, 2009. See above for a definition of this percentage. As of December 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, approximately 86% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 50% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by US Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2009, by rating and vintage. 175 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2009 % % % % % 2008 29 2007 30 2006 29 31 31 2005 27 31 2004 & Prior 25 15 21 9 As discussed above, with the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and early 2005, there are now three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. In addition to the enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The following table sets forth the amortized cost our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2009 Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranche) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 15 15 2007 431 431 2006 665 90 24 779 2005 1,042 205 1 1,248 2004 & Prior 48 11 836 108 4 1,007 Total $ 2,201 $ 306 $ $ $ 836 $ 108 $ 29 $ 3,480 Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office, or SVO, of the NAIC, evaluates the investments of insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. In general, NAIC designations of 1 highest quality, or 2 high quality, include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys or BBB or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 generally include fixed maturities referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys and BB+ or lower by Standard & Poors. However, in the fourth quarter of 2009 the NAIC adopted rules which temporarily changed the methodology for determining the NAIC Designations for non agency residential mortgage backed securities, including our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Under the new rules, rather than being based on the rating of a third party rating agency, as of December 31, 2009 the NAIC Designations for such securities are based on security level expected losses as modeled by an independent third party (engaged by the NAIC) and the statutory carrying value of the security, including any purchase discounts or impairment charges previously recognized. These rules are expected to be in place until a long term solution for evaluating these securities is determined. As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. 176 Table of Contents Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese insurance operations are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the Financial Services Agencys credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, including Moodys, Standard & Poors, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies. The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $9.5 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2009 and $9.0 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2008. Fixed maturities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating represented 29% and 19% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The increase in fixed maturity securities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating is primarily due to credit migration on existing securities, rather than new originations or purchases. As of December 31, 2009, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Business, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $10.5 billion, or 8%, of the total fixed maturities, and may include securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage backed securities described above. The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $6.7 billion, or 16%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2009 and $6.6 billion, or 15%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2008. Fixed maturities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating represented 41% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009, compared to 29% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $7.3 billion, or 17%, of the total fixed maturities, and may include securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage backed securities described above. Public Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) (2) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 94,368 $ 3,767 $ 1,845 $ 96,290 $ 85,474 $ 4,228 $ 4,425 $ 85,277 2 14,682 699 790 14,591 15,573 163 2,893 12,843 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 109,050 4,466 2,635 110,881 101,047 4,391 7,318 98,120 3 2,743 44 314 2,473 3,009 16 800 2,225 4 1,657 22 345 1,334 1,639 2 565 1,076 5 685 19 202 502 379 14 123 270 6 197 25 69 153 36 4 4 36 Subtotal Other Securities(4) 5,282 110 930 4,462 5,063 36 1,492 3,607 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 114,332 $ 4,576 $ 3,565 $ 115,343 $ 106,110 $ 4,427 $ 8,810 $ 101,727 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. 177 Table of Contents (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, 19 securities with amortized cost of $177 million (fair value, $175 million) and 13 securities with amortized cost of $3 million (fair value, $2 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $195 million of gross unrealized gains and $129 million gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009, compared to $132 million of gross unrealized gains and $132 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 on securities classified as held to maturity. (4) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2009 includes $231 million in emerging markets securities and $153 million in securitized bank loans. The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 20,374 $ 656 $ 853 $ 20,177 $ 20,231 $ 977 $ 2,040 $ 19,168 2 5,732 308 187 5,853 6,555 59 1,169 5,445 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 26,106 964 1,040 26,030 26,786 1,036 3,209 24,613 3 1,903 56 133 1,826 2,209 8 538 1,679 4 1,552 20 334 1,238 1,324 2 453 873 5 460 19 125 354 349 6 111 244 6 77 22 10 89 15 1 1 15 Subtotal Other Securities(2) 3,992 117 602 3,507 3,897 17 1,103 2,811 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 30,098 $ 1,081 $ 1,642 $ 29,537 $ 30,683 $ 1,053 $ 4,312 $ 27,424 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, 20 securities with amortized cost of $13 million (fair value, $8 million) and 18 securities with amortized cost of $30 million (fair value, $20 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (2) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2009, includes $550 million in securitized bank loans and $344 million in emerging markets securities. Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) (2) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 5,795 $ 259 $ 121 $ 5,933 $ 6,284 $ 112 $ 408 $ 5,988 2 10,510 454 379 10,585 11,341 92 1,310 10,123 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 16,305 713 500 16,518 17,625 204 1,718 16,111 3 2,267 50 131 2,186 2,405 24 381 2,048 4 1,193 18 118 1,093 1,037 14 244 807 5 482 6 36 452 283 7 59 231 6 313 24 39 298 232 8 39 201 Subtotal Other Securities(4) 4,255 98 324 4,029 3,957 53 723 3,287 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 20,560 $ 811 $ 824 $ 20,547 $ 21,582 $ 257 $ 2,441 $ 19,398 178 Table of Contents (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, 138 securities with amortized cost of $1,117 million (fair value, $1,124 million) and 129 securities with amortized cost of $1,211 million (fair value, $1,052 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $16 million of gross unrealized gains and $4 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009, compared to $25 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 on securities classified as held to maturity. (4) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2009 includes $894 million in securitized bank loans and $204 million in commercial asset finance securities. The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 3,091 $ 247 $ 13 $ 3,325 $ 3,379 $ 116 $ 115 $ 3,380 2 6,632 467 41 7,058 6,175 86 460 5,801 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 9,723 714 54 10,383 9,554 202 575 9,181 3 1,354 55 72 1,337 1,651 15 241 1,425 4 923 12 65 870 652 9 141 520 5 269 4 14 259 158 3 39 122 6 157 5 17 145 240 2 11 231 Subtotal Other Securities(2) 2,703 76 168 2,611 2,701 29 432 2,298 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 12,426 $ 790 $ 222 $ 12,994 $ 12,255 $ 231 $ 1,007 $ 11,479 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, 85 securities with amortized cost of $1,358 million (fair value, $1,375 million) and 87 securities with amortized cost of $1,908 million (fair value, $1,797 million) that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (2) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2009, includes $526 million in securitized bank loans and $366 million in commercial asset finance securities. Corporate Securities Credit Quality The following table sets forth both our public and private corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 33,076 $ 1,584 $ 819 $ 33,841 $ 29,537 $ 874 $ 1,753 $ 28,658 2 23,147 1,093 985 23,255 23,777 198 3,420 20,555 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 56,223 2,677 1,804 57,096 53,314 1,072 5,173 49,213 3 4,326 75 308 4,093 4,685 29 983 3,731 4 2,025 37 198 1,864 2,257 15 641 1,631 5 611 24 47 588 433 20 119 334 6 317 25 55 287 178 7 15 170 Subtotal Other Securities 7,279 161 608 6,832 7,553 71 1,758 5,866 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities $ 63,502 $ 2,838 $ 2,412 $ 63,928 $ 60,867 $ 1,143 $ 6,931 $ 55,079 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. 179 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities Closed Block Business NAIC Designation December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 10,252 $ 606 $ 77 $ 10,781 $ 9,382 $ 329 $ 435 $ 9,276 2 11,431 751 122 12,060 11,379 120 1,161 10,338 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 21,683 1,357 199 22,841 20,761 449 1,596 19,614 3 2,720 87 108 2,699 3,344 19 589 2,774 4 1,627 29 102 1,554 1,721 11 484 1,248 5 415 22 26 411 335 5 114 226 6 196 24 22 198 252 2 11 243 Subtotal Other Securities 4,958 162 258 4,862 5,652 37 1,198 4,491 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities $ 26,641 $ 1,519 $ 457 $ 27,703 $ 26,413 $ 486 $ 2,794 $ 24,105 Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities In addition to the credit exposure from public fixed maturities noted above, we sell credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced names public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first to default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. Subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties. The majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. Credit derivative contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value, including the premium received, recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The premium received for the credit derivatives we sell attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $10 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. 180 Table of Contents The following tables set forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Financial Services Businesses by NAIC designation of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 295 $ 3 $ 140 $ $ 435 $ 3 2 28 303 (3 ) 331 (3 ) Subtotal 323 3 443 (3 ) 766 (0 ) 3 132 (2 ) 132 (2 ) 4 5 50 (1 ) 50 (1 ) 6 Subtotal 182 (3 ) 182 (3 ) Total(2) $ 323 $ 3 $ 625 $ (6 ) $ 948 $ (3 ) Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2008 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 320 $ (9 ) $ 207 $ (19 ) $ 527 $ (28 ) 2 517 (84 ) 517 (84 ) Subtotal 320 (9 ) 724 (103 ) 1,044 (112 ) 3 15 (2 ) 15 (2 ) 4 5 102 (32 ) 102 (32 ) 6 Subtotal 117 (34 ) 117 (34 ) Total(2) $ 320 $ (9 ) $ 841 $ (137 ) $ 1,161 $ (146 ) (1) First to default credit swap baskets, which may include credits of varying qualities, are grouped above based on the lowest credit in the basket. However, such basket swaps may entail greater credit risk than the rating level of the lowest credit. (2) Excludes a credit derivative related to surplus notes issued by a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance and embedded derivatives contained in certain externally managed investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these derivatives. 181 Table of Contents The following tables set forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Closed Block Business portfolios by NAIC designation of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 28 $ $ $ $ 28 $ 2 Subtotal 28 28 3 4 5 6 Subtotal Total(2) $ 28 $ $ $ $ 28 $ Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Closed Block Business December 31, 2008 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 20 $ (1 ) $ 6 $ $ 26 $ (1 ) 2 5 25 (1 ) 30 (1 ) Subtotal 25 (1 ) 31 (1 ) 56 (2 ) 3 4 5 5 5 6 Subtotal 5 5 Total(2) $ 30 $ (1 ) $ 31 $ (1 ) $ 61 $ (2 ) (1) First to default credit swap baskets, which may include credits of varying qualities, are grouped above based on the lowest credit in the basket. However, such basket swaps may entail greater credit risk than the rating level of the lowest credit. (2) Excludes embedded derivatives contained in certain externally managed investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these derivatives. In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.852 billion and $1.069 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a $113 million asset and a $189 million asset, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Closed Block Business had $461 million and $309 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $61 million and $64 million, respectively. The premium paid for the credit derivatives we purchase attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $52 million and $21 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding credit derivatives and an overall description of our derivative activities. 182 Table of Contents Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 1,225 $ 267 $ 9,612 $ 2,605 Three months or greater but less than six months 714 175 13,481 4,623 Six months or greater but less than nine months 201 56 1,082 488 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 1,260 431 272 159 Greater than twelve months 4,533 1,517 Total $ 7,933 $ 2,446 $ 24,447 $ 7,875 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The month count was reset back to historical unrealized loss month counts for securities impacted by the adoption of new authoritative guidance related to other than temporary impairments on January 1, 2009. The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $2.446 billion as of December 31, 2009 includes $1.162 billion relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2009 also includes $73 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with amortized cost of $117 million where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 50% or more, of which, $1 million was included in the less than three months timeframe and $72 million was included in the greater than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments in earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2009, we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. 183 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 408 $ 94 $ 3,377 $ 928 Three months or greater but less than six months 203 52 6,159 2,338 Six months or greater but less than nine months 18 7 662 325 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 859 306 25 21 Greater than twelve months 1,827 672 Total $ 3,315 $ 1,131 $ 10,223 $ 3,612 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The month count was reset back to historical unrealized loss month counts for securities impacted by the adoption of new authoritative guidance related to other than temporary impairments on January 1, 2009. The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $1.131 billion as of December 31, 2009 includes $885 million relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2009 does not includes any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 50% or more. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments in earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2009, we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. For private placements our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers formally review all private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. 184 Table of Contents Fixed maturity securities classified as held to maturity are those securities where we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost in our consolidated statements of financial position. Other fixed maturity securities are considered available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value. All held to maturity securities and all available for sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest rate related, including general credit spread widening); the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer; and the extent and the duration of the decline, including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines; declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater; declines in value greater than 15%, maintained for more than one year on below investment grade bonds; and declines in value less than six months where there has been a precipitous (generally 50% or greater) decline in value. Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, and the resulting historically wide bid ask spreads and high levels of price volatility, the extent and duration of a decline in value have become less indicative of when the market may believe there has been credit deterioration with respect to an issuer. Considering these current conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 our determinations of whether a decline in value is other than temporary have placed greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our credit analysis of an investment includes determining whether the issuer is current on its contractual payments, evaluating whether it is probable that we will be able to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security, and analyzing our overall ability to recover the amortized cost of the investment. We continue to utilize valuation declines as a potential indicator of credit deterioration, and apply additional levels of scrutiny in our analysis as the severity and duration of the decline increases. In addition, effective with our adoption on January 1, 2009 of new authoritative guidance related to debt securities we recognize an other than temporary impairment in earnings for a debt security in an unrealized loss position when either (a) we have the intent to sell the debt security or (b) it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. For all debt securities in unrealized loss positions that do not meet either of these two criteria, we analyze our ability to recover the amortized cost by comparing the net present value of our best estimate of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost of the security. If the net present value is less than the amortized cost of the investment, an other than temporary impairment is recorded. The determination of the assumptions used in these projections requires the use of significant management judgment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these assumptions and our policies for recognizing other than temporary impairments for debt securities. Other than temporary impairments of general account fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were recognized in earnings were $1.162 billion and $1.628 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of general account fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $668 million and $970 million, respectively, of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business that were recognized in earnings were $520 million and $718 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $322 million and $463 million, respectively, of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. 185 Table of Contents Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, are experience rated, meaning that we expect the investment results associated with these products will ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading. These trading investments are reflected on the balance sheet as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income, and excluded from adjusted operating income. Investment income for these investments is reported in Net investment income, and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of this portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short term Investments and Cash Equivalents $ 725 $ 725 $ 1,232 $ 1,232 Fixed Maturities: Corporate Securities 9,202 9,502 8,814 7,971 Commercial Mortgage Backed 1,899 1,893 2,335 2,092 Residential Mortgage Backed 1,434 1,432 708 684 Asset Backed Securities 1,022 857 915 635 Foreign Government 508 517 416 420 U.S. Government 169 159 147 143 Total Fixed Maturities 14,234 14,360 13,335 11,945 Equity Securities 1,033 935 1,074 698 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities $ 15,992 $ 16,020 $ 15,641 $ 13,875 As a percentage of amortized cost, 75% of the portfolio was publicly traded as of both December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. As of both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, 88% of the fixed maturity portfolio was considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2009, $1.244 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees all of which have credit ratings of A or higher. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $117 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represented the remaining $190 million of residential mortgage backed securities, of which 87% have credit ratings of A or better and 13% are BBB and below. For a discussion of changes in the fair value of our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities see Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes, above. 186 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition by industry category of the corporate securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities by Industry Category Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Industry(1) AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 3,089 $ 3,221 $ 2,870 $ 2,631 Utilities 2,017 2,076 1,958 1,757 Services 1,322 1,364 1,464 1,302 Finance 1,254 1,261 1,045 931 Energy 705 733 624 553 Transportation 474 488 462 426 Retail and Wholesale 330 348 390 371 Other 11 11 1 Total Corporate Securities $ 9,202 $ 9,502 $ 8,814 $ 7,971 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. The following tables set forth our asset backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 1 126 127 133 2006 1 3 17 14 96 131 183 2005 7 3 50 60 83 2004 & Prior 3 25 5 15 31 79 94 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 12 31 22 29 303 397 493 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by auto loans 130 4 2 136 149 Collateralized by credit cards 283 105 388 141 Other asset backed securities 49 3 7 30 12 101 132 Total asset backed securities $ 474 $ 38 29 $ 166 $ 315 $ 1,022 $ 915 187 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 1 64 65 61 2006 1 3 6 7 65 82 115 2005 6 3 33 42 63 2004 & Prior 2 17 4 11 17 51 59 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(1) 10 23 10 18 179 240 298 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by auto loans 131 4 2 137 144 Collateralized by credit cards 295 102 397 89 Other asset backed securities(2) 44 3 6 25 5 83 104 Total asset backed securities $ 480 $ 30 $ 16 $ 147 $ 184 $ 857 $ 635 (1) Included within the $240 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at fair value as of December 31, 2009 are $4 million of securities collateralized by second lien exposures at fair value. (2) As of December 31, 2009, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $7 million, none of which are secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by timeshares, franchises, education loans, and equipment leases. The following tables set forth our commercial mortgage backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 46 46 46 2006 193 4 197 197 2005 840 10 850 1,012 2004 & Prior 707 52 35 9 3 806 1,080 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(1) $ 1,786 $ 66 $ 35 $ 9 $ 3 $ 1,899 $ 2,335 188 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2009 TotalDecember 31,2008 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) 2009 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2008 2007 43 43 33 2006 196 4 200 168 2005 847 9 856 906 2004 & Prior 710 47 29 5 3 794 985 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 1,796 $ 60 $ 29 $ 5 $ 3 $ 1,893 $ 2,092 (1) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2009 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $13 million in AA. The following table sets forth our public fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1)(2) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 6,986 $ 193 $ 91 $ 7,088 $ 5,843 $ 48 $ 455 $ 5,436 2 2,349 118 30 2,437 2,673 4 359 2,318 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 9,335 311 121 9,525 8,516 52 814 7,754 3 422 7 45 384 544 128 416 4 272 3 41 234 279 93 186 5 93 33 60 50 29 21 6 76 2 51 27 30 27 3 Subtotal Other Securities 863 12 170 705 903 277 626 Total Public Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 10,198 $ 323 $ 291 $ 10,230 $ 9,419 $ 52 $ 1,091 $ 8,380 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. 189 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our private fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1)(2) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 833 $ 32 $ 12 $ 853 $ 977 $ 2 $ 60 $ 919 2 2,379 116 18 2,477 2,191 13 191 2,013 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 3,212 148 30 3,330 3,168 15 251 2,932 3 592 11 18 585 571 2 74 499 4 153 4 11 146 141 37 104 5 54 1 4 51 10 2 8 6 25 7 18 26 4 22 Subtotal Other Securities 824 16 40 800 748 2 117 633 Total Private Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities $ 4,036 $ 164 $ 70 $ 4,130 $ 3,916 $ 17 $ 368 $ 3,565 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Other Trading Account Assets Other trading account assets, at fair value consist primarily of investments and certain derivatives we use either in our capacity as a broker dealer or for asset and liability management activities. Also, for certain financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative that otherwise would need to be bifurcated and reported at fair value, we may elect to classify the entire instrument as a trading account asset and report it within Other trading account assets. These instruments are carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses reported in Asset management fees and other income, and excluded from adjusted operating income. Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in Net investment income, and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of our other trading account assets as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short term Investments and Cash Equivalents $ 5 $ 5 $ $ $ 6 $ 6 $ $ Fixed Maturities: Corporate Securities 191 192 110 122 96 88 123 105 Asset Backed Securities 965 913 40 40 371 269 25 15 Commercial Mortgage Backed 238 136 216 135 Residential Mortgage Backed 287 158 278 150 Foreign Government 24 24 33 34 U.S. Government 12 12 9 9 Total Fixed Maturities 1,717 1,435 150 162 1,003 685 148 120 Equity Securities 148 157 4 5 30 23 Other 17 19 14 14 Total other trading account assets $ 1,887 $ 1,616 $ 154 $ 167 $ 1,053 $ 728 $ 148 $ 120 190 Table of Contents During 2009, we purchased asset backed securities under the Federal Reserves Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. TALF provides secured financing for the acquisition of asset backed securities backed by certain types of consumer and small business loans. As of December 31, 2009, there were $466 million of remaining asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses purchased under TALF that are reflected within Other trading account assets. We received secured financing from the Federal Reserve of $429 million related to the purchase of these securities that is reflected within Long term debt. For additional information regarding TALF, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. As of December 31, 2009, on an amortized cost basis 87% of asset backed securities classified as Other trading account assets attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have credit ratings of A or above, 10% have BBB and the remaining 3% have BB and below credit ratings. As of December 31, 2009, on an amortized cost basis 25% of asset backed securities classified as Other trading account assets attributable to the Closed Block Business have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 75% have BBB credit ratings. Beginning in second quarter of 2008 and continuing through 2009, we restructured certain externally managed investments in the European market attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, which reflected our investment in medium term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of European fixed income securities. These investments are now included as direct holdings in our portfolio and are generally reflected within Other trading account assets. The medium term note investments were previously recorded within fixed maturity securitiesavailable for sale. For additional information regarding externally managed investments in the European market, see Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Investment Mix As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 we held approximately 12% and 13%, respectively, of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans. This percentage is net of a $534 million and $211 million allowance for losses as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio, before the allowance for losses, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans $ 19,322 $ 8,486 $ 19,936 $ 8,765 Uncollateralized loans 1,349 1,204 40 Loans collateralized by residential properties 909 1 976 1 Other collateralized loans(1) 111 129 Total commercial mortgage and other loans(2) $ 21,691 $ 8,487 $ 22,245 $ 8,806 (1) Other collateralized loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses includes $93 million and $109 million of collateralized consumer loans and $17 million and $19 million of loans collateralized by aviation assets as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. (2) Excluded from the tables above are commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. We originate domestic commercial mortgage loans using dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through our various regional offices across the country. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual currency loans and corporate loans which do not meet the definition of a security under authoritative accounting guidance. 191 Table of Contents Loans collateralized by residential properties primarily include Japanese recourse loans. Upon default of these recourse loans we can make a claim against the personal assets of the property owner, in addition to the mortgaged property. In addition, these loans are backed by third party guarantors. Composition of Commercial Mortgage Loans The global financial markets have experienced extreme stress since the second half of 2007. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected, leading to a decrease in the overall liquidity and availability of capital in the commercial mortgage loan market, and in particular a decrease in activity by securitization lenders. These conditions have led to greater opportunities for more selective originations by portfolio lenders such as our general account. While we have observed weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, delinquency rates on our commercial mortgage loans have been relatively stable in recent years. However, continued difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the overall economic downturn has put additional pressure on these fundamentals through rising vacancies, falling rents and falling property values, resulting in potentially higher levels of loan losses. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial mortgage loans by region: U.S. Regions: Pacific $ 5,744 29.7 % $ 2,834 33.4 % $ 5,854 29.4 % $ 2,834 32.3 % South Atlantic 4,530 23.4 1,687 19.9 4,614 23.2 1,751 20.0 Middle Atlantic 2,909 15.1 1,837 21.6 2,953 14.8 1,896 21.6 East North Central 1,649 8.5 448 5.3 1,772 8.9 500 5.7 West South Central 1,370 7.1 653 7.7 1,460 7.3 646 7.4 Mountain 1,070 5.6 398 4.7 1,129 5.7 407 4.6 New England 775 4.0 214 2.5 903 4.5 327 3.7 West North Central 563 2.9 196 2.3 604 3.0 180 2.1 East South Central 367 1.9 163 1.9 385 1.9 167 1.9 Subtotal U.S. 18,977 98.2 8,430 99.3 19,674 98.7 8,708 99.3 Asia 11 0.1 1 Other 334 1.7 56 0.7 261 1.3 57 0.7 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,322 100.0 % $ 8,486 100.0 % $ 19,936 100.0 % $ 8,765 100.0 % 192 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial mortgage loans by property type: Industrial buildings $ 4,290 22.2 % $ 1,861 21.9 % $ 4,544 22.8 % $ 1,959 22.3 % Retail stores 4,123 21.3 1,677 19.8 3,742 18.8 1,578 18.0 Office buildings 4,001 20.7 1,859 21.9 4,024 20.2 1,787 20.4 Apartment Complexes 2,881 14.9 1,376 16.2 3,549 17.8 1,727 19.7 Other 1,809 9.4 550 6.5 1,719 8.6 518 5.9 Hospitality 1,137 5.9 453 5.3 1,134 5.7 427 4.9 Agricultural properties 1,081 5.6 710 8.4 1,224 6.1 769 8.8 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,322 100.0 % $ 8,486 100.0 % $ 19,936 100.0 % $ 8,765 100.0 % Loan to value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage loans. The loan to value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan to value ratios greater than 100% percent indicate that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A smaller loan to value ratio indicates a greater excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loans current debt payments. A larger debt service coverage ratio indicates a greater excess of net operating income over the debt service payments. As of December 31, 2009, our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.80 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 65%. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 96% of commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were fixed rate loans. As of December 31, 2009, our general account investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.88 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 58%. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 99% of commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business were fixed rate loans. For those general account commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were originated in 2009, the weighted average loan to value ratio was 59%, and the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 1.72 times. The values utilized in calculating these loan to value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio, which includes an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. Our periodic review also includes a quality re rating process, whereby we update the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting based on the proprietary quality rating system mentioned above. As discussed below, the internal quality rating is a key input in determining our allowance for loan losses. For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included approximately $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and our commercial mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included approximately $0.4 billion and $0.7 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. All else being equal, these loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2009 there are $11 million and $2 million of loan specific reserves related to these loans in the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. In addition, these unstabilized loans are included in the calculation of our portfolio reserve as discussed below, For information regarding similar loans we hold as part of our commercial mortgage operations, see Invested Asset of Other Entities and Operations. The following tables set forth the gross carrying value of our general account 193 Table of Contents investments in commercial mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated by loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. Commercial Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto1.8x 1.2xto1.5x 1.0xto1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans Loan to Value Ratio (in millions) 0% 50% $ 2,813 $ 483 $ 727 $ 541 $ 171 $ 101 $ 4,836 50% 60% 1,267 370 936 394 145 58 3,170 60% 70% 622 190 787 1,356 94 28 3,077 70% 80% 353 606 1,185 1,693 377 142 4,356 80% 90% 93 70 373 848 283 246 1,913 90% 100% 123 188 255 197 763 Greater than 100% 20 243 345 599 1,207 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 5,168 $ 1,719 $ 4,131 $ 5,263 $ 1,670 $ 1,371 $ 19,322 Commercial Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto1.8x 1.2xto1.5x 1.0xto1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans Loan to Value Ratio (in millions) 0% 50% $ 1,959 $ 435 $ 522 $ 350 $ 64 $ 59 $ 3,389 50% 60% 389 198 366 188 71 66 1,278 60% 70% 83 44 254 549 6 44 980 70% 80% 75 86 470 708 100 15 1,454 80% 90% 112 45 199 156 94 83 689 90% 100% 80 161 61 302 Greater than 100% 123 106 165 394 Total commercial mortgage loans $ 2,618 $ 808 $ 1,811 $ 2,154 $ 602 $ 493 $ 8,486 The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage loans by year of origination as of December 31, 2009. Commercial Mortgage Loans by Year of Origination December 31, 2009 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Year of Origination GrossCarryingValue % of Total GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) 2009 $ 1,581 8.2 % $ 506 6.0 % 2008 3,708 19.2 1,202 14.2 % 2007 4,641 24.0 1,681 19.8 % 2006 3,304 17.1 1,057 12.4 % 2005 2,123 11.0 801 9.4 % 2004 and prior 3,965 20.5 3,239 38.2 % Total commercial mortgage loans $ 19,322 100.0 % $ 8,486 100.0 % 194 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following tables set forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business GrossCarryingValue % of Total GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) Maturing in 2010 $ 1,465 6.8 % $ 333 3.9 % Maturing in 2011 2,105 9.7 581 6.8 Maturing in 2012 3,412 15.7 1,055 12.4 Maturing in 2013 2,612 12.1 934 11.0 Maturing in 2014 1,397 6.4 956 11.3 Maturing in 2015 2,064 9.5 919 10.8 Maturing in 2016 2,348 10.8 912 10.8 Maturing in 2017 1,743 8.1 601 7.1 Maturing in 2018 1,111 5.1 611 7.2 Maturing in 2019 and beyond 3,434 15.8 1,585 18.7 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 21,691 100.0 % $ 8,487 100.0 % Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality Ongoing review of the portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria. We place loans on early warning status in cases where, based on our analysis of the loans collateral, the financial situation of the borrower or tenants or other market factors, we believe a loss of principal or interest could occur. We classify loans as closely monitored when we determine there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that may lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where we have concluded that there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. As described below, in determining our allowance for losses we evaluate each loan on the watch list to determine if it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial mortgage loans. We establish an allowance for losses to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process. The allowance includes loan specific reserves for loans that are determined to be non performing as a result of our loan review process, and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses for loans which are not on the watch list. We define a non performing loan as a loan for which we estimate it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan specific portion of the loss allowance is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Valuation allowances for a non performing loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers the current credit composition of the portfolio based on the internal quality ratings mentioned above, as well as property type diversification, our past loan experience and other relevant factors. Together with historical credit migration and default statistics, the internal quality ratings are used to determine a default probability by loan. Historical loss severity statistics by property type are then applied to arrive at an estimate for incurred but not specifically identified losses. Historical credit migration, default and loss severity statistics are updated each quarter based on our actual loan experience, and are considered together with other relevant qualitative factors in making the final portfolio reserve calculations. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans can increase or decrease from period to period based on these factors. 195 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the gross carrying value for commercial mortgage and other loans by loan classification as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Current $ 21,385 $ 8,461 $ 22,162 $ 8,788 Delinquent, not in foreclosure 179 13 57 17 Delinquent, in foreclosure 6 3 Restructured 121 10 26 1 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 21,691 $ 8,487 $ 22,245 $ 8,806 The following table sets forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year $ 153 $ 58 $ 90 $ 28 Addition to/(release of) allowance for losses 335 86 58 30 Charge offs, net of recoveries (81 ) (20 ) Change in foreign exchange 3 5 Allowance, end of period $ 410 $ 124 $ 153 $ 58 As of December 31, 2009 the $410 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses includes $162 million related to loan specific reserves and $248 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2008 the $153 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included $8 million related to loan specific reserves and $145 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2009 the $124 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business includes $13 million related to loan specific reserves and $111 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2008 the $58 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included $6 million related to loan specific reserves and $52 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. The increase in the allowance for both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business primarily reflects the overall economic downturn and weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, as discussed above. 196 Table of Contents Equity Securities Investment Mix The equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares and perpetual preferred securities, as discussed below. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: Equity Securities Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 2,979 $ 440 $ 117 $ 3,302 $ 3,807 $ 43 $ 624 $ 3,226 Private equity(1) 469 66 39 496 461 20 48 433 Total Equity $ 3,448 $ 506 $ 156 $ 3,798 $ 4,268 $ 63 $ 672 $ 3,659 (1) Includes non public securities, primarily private non redeemable preferred stock. Hedge funds and other alternative investments are included in Other Long Term Investments. Public equity securities include mutual fund shares representing our interest in the underlying assets of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. These mutual funds invest primarily in high yield bonds. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these shares as of December 31, 2009 were $1,394 million, $371 million, $0 million, and $1,765 million, respectively. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these shares as of December 31, 2008 were $1,306 million, $23 million, $119 million, and $1,210 million, respectively. Equity securities also include perpetual preferred securities, which have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of perpetual preferred securities as of December 31, 2009 were $829 million, $31 million, $58 million, and $802 million, respectively. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these securities as of December 31, 2008 were $378 million, $1 million, $93 million, and $286 million, respectively. The equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, as well as perpetual preferred securities. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated: Equity Securities Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public equity $ 2,638 $ 504 $ 69 $ 3,073 $ 2,998 $ 196 $ 811 $ 2,383 Private equity 9 3 12 17 17 Total Equity $ 2,647 $ 507 $ 69 $ 3,085 $ 3,015 $ 196 $ 811 $ 2,400 The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of perpetual preferred securities as of December 31, 2009 were $161 million, $8 million, $11 million, and $158 million, respectively. The cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value of these securities as of December 31, 2008 were $106 million, $0 million, $29 million, and $77 million, respectively. 197 Table of Contents Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 829 $ 30 $ 1,096 $ 71 Three months or greater but less than six months 159 18 340 31 Six months or greater but less than nine months 13 1 174 9 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 56 7 124 6 Greater than twelve months 691 59 256 33 Total $ 1,748 $ 115 $ 1,990 $ 150 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 24 $ 6 $ 1,002 $ 337 Three months or greater but less than six months 49 13 248 80 Six months or greater but less than nine months 12 4 39 17 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 21 5 322 88 Greater than twelve months 36 13 Total $ 142 $ 41 $ 1,611 $ 522 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009 were primarily concentrated in the finance, energy, and manufacturing sectors compared to December 31, 2008 where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the finance, other, and manufacturing sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $41 million as of December 31, 2009 includes $10 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with a cost of $23 million where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more, all of which was included in the greater than twelve months timeframe. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other than temporary impairment on certain of these perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2009. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. 198 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 2,188 $ 10 $ 1,348 $ 106 Three months or greater but less than six months 267 23 Six months or greater but less than nine months 8 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 16 4 Greater than twelve months 109 11 Total $ 2,588 $ 48 $ 1,348 $ 106 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) Cost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 29 $ 8 $ 288 $ 89 Three months or greater but less than six months 24 10 1,289 580 Six months or greater but less than nine months 2 1 72 36 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 4 2 Greater than twelve months Total $ 59 $ 21 $ 1,649 $ 705 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009 were primarily concentrated in the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors compared to December 31, 2008 where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing, finance and services sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $21 million as of December 31, 2009 does not includes any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other than temporary impairment on certain of these perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2009. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. 199 Table of Contents Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities For those equity securities classified as available for sale we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and the duration of the decline; including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines: declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater; declines in value maintained for one year or greater; and declines in value greater than 50%; the reasons for the decline in value (issuer specific event, currency or market fluctuation); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. Given recent market conditions and liquidity concerns, and the resulting high levels of price volatility, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we extended the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. In particular, we generally recognize other than temporary impairments for securities with declines in value greater than 50% maintained for six months or greater or with any decline in value maintained for one year or greater. In addition, in making our determinations we continue to analyze the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including an assessment of the issuers capital position, and consider our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. For those securities that have declines in value that are deemed to be only temporary, we make an assertion as to our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Once identified, these securities are restricted from trading unless authorized based upon events that could not have been foreseen at the time we asserted our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the deterioration of the issuers creditworthiness, a major business combination or disposition, a change in regulatory requirements, certain other portfolio actions or other similar events. For those securities that have declines in value for which we cannot assert our ability and intent to retain until recovery, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions, impairments are recognized as other than temporary regardless of the reason for, or the extent of, the decline. For perpetual preferred securities, which have characteristics of both debt and equity securities, we apply an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, factoring in the position of the security in the capital structure and the lack of a formal maturity date. For additional discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities above. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis and is included in Realized investment gains (losses). See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our policies around other than temporary impairments for equity securities. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value methodology used for equity securities. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $389 million and $815 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $613 million and $387 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. 200 Table of Contents Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments are comprised as follows: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Joint ventures and limited partnerships: Real estate related $ 331 $ 338 $ 405 $ 348 Non real estate related 816 1,049 904 1,044 Real estate held through direct ownership(1) 1,055 1,109 Other(2) 609 158 617 237 Total other long term investments $ 2,811 $ 1,545 $ 3,035 $ 1,629 (1) Primarily includes investment in an office building used by our Japanese insurance operations. (2) Primarily includes derivatives and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. For additional information regarding our holding in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations The following table sets forth the composition of the investments held outside the general account in other entities and operations as of the dates indicated. December 31,2009 December 31,2008 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 1,953 $ 1,805 Private, available for sale, at fair value 49 55 Other trading account assets, at fair value 1,250 3,488 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 12 6 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value(1) 1,740 2,274 Securities purchased under agreements to resell 6 480 Other long term investments 1,548 2,348 Short term investments 1,179 1,218 Total investments $ 7,737 $ 11,674 (1) Book value is generally based on unpaid principal balance net of any allowance for losses, the lower of cost or fair value, or fair value, depending on the loan. The table above includes the invested assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as separate account assets on our balance sheet are not included. Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities primarily include investments related to our banking operations, where customer deposit liabilities are primarily supported by fixed maturity and short term investments, in addition to cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, invested assets held outside the general account in other entities and operations include available for sale residential mortgage backed securities with amortized cost of $770 million and fair value of $795 million, 99% of which have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 1% of which have credit ratings of BB and below. Also included are available for sale commercial mortgage backed securities with amortized cost of $87 million and fair value of $92 million, 92% of which have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 8% of which have credit ratings of BB and below. Less than $1 million of commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account are classified as other trading account assets as of December 31, 2009 all of which have AAA credit ratings. 201 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, invested assets held outside the general account in other entities and operations also includes available for sale asset backed securities with amortized cost of $242 million and fair value of $243 million, none which represents securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Based on amortized cost, 90% of the available for sale asset backed securities have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 10% have BBB or below credit ratings. The asset backed securities as of December 31, 2009, include collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $21 million and fair value of $7 million. An additional $38 million of asset backed securities held outside the general account as of December 31, 2009 are classified as other trading account assets, 92% of which have credit ratings of AAA and 8% of which have credit ratings of B. Other Trading Account Assets Other trading account assets primarily include trading positions held by our derivatives trading operations and our global commodities group. Our derivatives trading operations maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. We seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks associated with these positions. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts. Our global commodities group provides advice, sales and trading on a global basis covering a wide variety of commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and forward contracts, including agricultural commodities, base and precious metals, major currencies, interest rate and stock indices. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. Commercial mortgage and other loans Our asset management operations include our commercial mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac. We also originate shorter term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. These interim loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. Due to market conditions and the inherent risk of these loans, the underwriting of new interim loans was suspended during the third quarter of 2008. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale of the underlying collateral by the borrower. As of December 31, 2009, the interim loans had an unpaid principal balance of $1.7 billion and an allowance for losses or credit related market value losses totaling $236 million. The weighted average loan to value ratio was 112%, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan amount was greater than the collateral value, and the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 1.16 times. A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2009, we also hold $59 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in Commercial mortgage and other loans, with related derivatives and other hedging instruments primarily included in Other trading account assets and Other long term investments. Other long term investments Other long term investments primarily include proprietary investments made as part of our asset management operations. We make these proprietary investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other proprietary investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). As part of our asset management operations we also make loans to our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds. 202 Table of Contents Commercial Real Estate As discussed above, we have investment based exposure to commercial real estate through a variety of investment vehicles. This exposure primarily results from our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities and our whole loan commercial mortgage holdings. For additional information regarding our exposure to commercial real estate, see the respective investment sections above within General Account Investments. Our invested asset exposure to commercial real estate as of the dates indicated includes the following, shown at their respective balance sheet carrying value: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) General Account Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities, at fair value: Fixed Maturity Securities $ 7,828 $ 3,662 $ 6,852 $ 3,188 Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities 1,893 2,092 Other Trading Account Assets 136 135 Commercial Mortgage Loans, at gross carrying value(1) 19,322 8,486 19,936 8,765 Real estate related joint ventures and limited partnerships(2) 331 338 405 348 Real estate held through direct ownership(3) 1,055 1,109 Other Entities and Operations(4) Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities, at fair value: Fixed Maturity Securities $ 92 $ $ 22 $ Other Trading Account Assets 1 Commercial Mortgage Loans, at gross carrying value(5) 1,739 2,175 Real estate related joint ventures and limited partnerships(2) 492 437 Real estate held through direct ownership(3) 461 1,056 (1) Carrying value is generally based on unpaid principal balance. Amounts are shown gross of allowance for losses of $371 million and $124 million as of December 31, 2009 and $116 million and $58 million as of December 31, 2008, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Loans are shown net of the allowance for losses on the statement of financial position. (2) Balances accounted for under either the cost or equity method and include all real estate related exposures, net of impairments. (3) Represents wholly owned investment real estate which we have the intent to hold for the production of income as well as real estate held for sale. Real estate which we have the intent to hold for the production of income is carried at depreciated cost less any writedowns to fair value for impairment. Real estate held for sale is carried at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less estimated selling costs and is not further depreciated once classified as such. (4) Includes invested assets of brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. (5) Carrying value is generally based on unpaid principal balance, the lower of cost or fair value, or fair value. Amounts are shown gross of allowance for losses of $147 million and $76 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Loans are shown net of the allowance for losses on the statement of financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview The disruptions in the capital markets that began in the second half of 2007, initially due to concerns over sub prime mortgage holdings of financial institutions, accelerated to unprecedented levels in the latter half of 2008 and continued into 2009, resulting in failure, consolidation, or U.S. federal government intervention on behalf of several significant financial institutions. These disruptions resulted in significant market volatility and adversely impacted the availability and cost of credit and capital. However, certain markets have shown marked improvement since mid 2009. Equity markets have appreciated, with less volatility, and bond spreads have tightened significantly. We took advantage of these improved market conditions and raised approximately $4.4 billion in the capital markets in 2009. In June, we sold 36,858,975 shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock in a public offering, 203 Table of Contents at a price of $39.00 per share, for gross proceeds of $1.438 billion and we announced at that time that we would not participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In June and September, we sold an aggregate of $2.5 billion of Prudential Financial medium term notes. In September, we issued $500 million of Prudential Insurance surplus notes that are exchangeable for Prudential Financial Common Stock. These financing transactions allowed us to preserve our financial flexibility by conserving internal resources and paying down a portion of our commercial paper borrowings. In January 2010, we issued an additional $1.25 billion of Prudential Financial medium term notes. On December 31, 2009, we received $4.5 billion of proceeds in cash from Wells Fargo upon the completion of the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. The proceeds are being held in cash and short term investments until such time as the proceeds, net of taxes, are invested longer term. In addition, we received $418 million in payment of the principal of and accrued interest on the subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $417 million that had been issued by Wachovia Securities in connection with the establishment of the joint venture. Also, in June 2009, we repurchased $1.819 billion of the floating rate convertible senior notes that we issued in 2007, at par plus accrued interest, as required by the holders under the terms of the notes, using existing cash and short term investments. As the dislocation in the markets continued, we took certain other actions during 2009 to strengthen our liquidity and capital position, including the following: (1) made capital contributions and capital loans to our international insurance operations in Japan totaling $366 million; (2) borrowed $1.5 billion from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, in the form of collateralized funding agreements, to replace funding agreements between Prudential Financial and Prudential Insurance, thereby converting retail medium term note issuances to general corporate debt; (3) significantly reduced our reliance on commercial paper; (4) sold assets held by some of our affiliates to reduce their borrowing needs; (5) monetized gains from certain derivative positions, including those related to the U.S. dollar denominated products co insured from our Japanese insurance operations; (6) completed internal asset sales; and (7) repaid affiliate surplus notes. While the above actions have strengthened our liquidity and capital position, certain of them, as well as our decision to maintain higher levels of cash and short term investments than in prior periods, have had a negative impact on current earnings. The Company continues to operate with significant cash and short term investments on the balance sheet and has access to alternate sources of liquidity, as described below. However, should the recent improvements in the capital markets prove temporary and the severity of prior markets return, such market disruptions could potentially adversely affect Prudential Financials and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. We may take additional actions beyond those described above, especially in the event of such disruptions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on Prudential Financial Common Stock; (3) utilize further proceeds from our outstanding retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes by accelerating repayments of additional funding agreements from Prudential Insurance; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) transfer ownership of certain subsidiaries of Prudential Financial to Prudential Insurance; (6) take additional actions related to derivatives; (7) limit or curtail sales of certain products and or restructure existing products; (8) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; and (9) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules. Certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and or agreement of counterparties, which are outside of our control, or have economic costs associated with them. In the event that market conditions were to deteriorate, we may also be required to make further capital contributions to our regulated domestic or international subsidiaries. Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs over a multi year time horizon through our quarterly planning process. We believe that cash flows from the sources of funds presently available to us are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. 204 Table of Contents Prudential Financial The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company and registrant, to meet its obligations, including the payment of debt service, declared shareholder dividends, operating expenses, capital contributions and obligations to subsidiaries, are dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries, and cash and short term investments. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financials access to the capital markets and bank facilities, as well as the Alternative Sources of Liquidity described below. As of December 31, 2009, Prudential Financial had cash and short term investments of $3.830 billion, a decrease of $604 million from December 31, 2008. Included in the cash and short term investments of Prudential Financial is $916 million held in an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its affiliates on a daily basis. Short term investments comprise $660 million of Prudential Financials total cash and short term investments and consist primarily of government agency securities and money market funds. Prudential Financials principal sources and uses of cash and short term investments for the year ended December 31, 2009 were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 (in millions) Sources: Dividends and or returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) $ 1,305 Net proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock(2) 1,391 Proceeds from the issuance of long term senior debt, net of repayments(2) 2,264 Repayment of funding agreements from Prudential Insurance(3) 1,359 Receipt from subsidiary for taxes on Wachovia Securities joint venture settlement 1,186 Proceeds from stock based compensation and exercise of stock options 205 Total sources 7,710 Uses: Capital contributions to subsidiaries(4) 1,567 Shareholder dividends 347 Repayment of short term debt, net of issuances(5) 1,928 Repayment of retail medium term notes(2) 200 Repayment of floating rate convertible senior notes(2) 2,141 Payments to purchase fixed maturity securities 198 Net borrowings under intercompany loan agreements(6) 1,246 Other, net 687 Total uses 8,314 Net decrease in cash and short term investments $ (604 ) (1) Includes dividends and or returns of capital of $952 million from international insurance and investments subsidiaries, including the repayment of capital loans which were refinanced from internal sources in connection with the maturity of &yen;74 billion borrowed under unsecured bridge loan facilities, $266 million from asset management subsidiaries and $87 million from other subsidiaries. (2) See Financing Activities. (3) See Prudential Financial Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. (4) Includes capital contributions of $871 million to international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $277 million to Pruco Reinsurance, $189 million to asset management subsidiaries, $95 million to an irrevocable trust, commonly referred to as rabbi trust, which holds assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to certain non qualified retirement plans, and $135 million to other subsidiaries. (5) Includes repayment at maturity of &yen;74 billion borrowed under unsecured bridge loan facilities as discussed in Financing Activities and a decrease in outstanding commercial paper as discussed in Prudential Financial Alternative Sources of Liquidity Commercial Paper Programs. (6) Includes net borrowings of $595 million by Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation primarily to fund deferred acquisition costs on variable annuity products, $350 million by Pruco Reinsurance to support the capital markets hedging program related to our variable annuity products, partially offset by the repayment of $498 million of intercompany surplus notes by Prudential Arizona Reinsurance Captive Company. Also includes net borrowings of $396 million and $282 million by our asset management subsidiaries and real estate and relocation services business, respectively, serving as replacement funding for short term borrowings with Prudential Funding, LLC. The remainder represents loans and repayments from other subsidiaries and net activity in our intercompany liquidity account discussed above. 205 Table of Contents On November 10, 2009, Prudential Financials Board of Directors declared an annual dividend for 2009 of 70 cents per share of Common Stock, payable on December 18, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 24, 2009. The 2009 Common Stock dividend represents an increase of approximately 21 percent from the 2008 Common Stock dividend. Prudential Financial is a holding company whose principal assets are its investments in subsidiaries. We believe Prudential Financials capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with its ratings targets. Our long term senior debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are A for Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Inc., or Moodys, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, and a for A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best. Our financial strength rating targets for our domestic life insurance companies are AA/Aa/AA for S&P, Moodys and Fitch, respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best. For our current ratings (some of which are below these targets), a description of material rating actions that occurred in 2009, and a discussion of the potential impacts of ratings downgrades, see Ratings. We seek to capitalize all of our subsidiaries and businesses in accordance with their ratings targets. The primary components of capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension and postretirement benefits), outstanding junior subordinated debt and outstanding capital debt of the Financial Services Businesses, as discussed below under Financing Activities. Based on these components, the capital position of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009 was as follows: December 31,2009 (in millions) Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension /postretirement benefits) $ 25,399 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities)(1) 1,518 Capital debt(1) 6,935 Total capital $ 33,852 (1) Our capital debt to total capital ratio was 21.6% as of December 31, 2009. For the purpose of calculating this ratio, 75% of the hybrid securities are attributed equity credit, with the remaining 25% treated as capital debt. As shown in the table above, as of December 31, 2009, the Financial Services Businesses had $33.9 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessments of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital was consistent with the AA ratings targets of our regulated operating entities as of December 31, 2009. In October 2008, in response to the severe dislocation affecting the financial markets, the U.S. Treasury launched the TARP Capital Purchase Program which involved the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury. We applied in October 2008 to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and on May 14, 2009, we received preliminary approval from the U.S. Treasury to participate in the Program. However, on June 1, 2009, we announced that we would not participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition to the foregoing, the U.S. federal government, as well as foreign governments and central banks, have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the recent financial market dislocation, which could include increased regulation of financial services and financial institutions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether these actions will be adopted or the effect they may have on the financial markets, or on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For additional information regarding the potential increased regulation of financial services and financial institutions see Business Regulation. Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries Our insurance and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends or distributions, all dividends or distributions paid by 206 Table of Contents Prudential Insurance may be declared or paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus was $5.295 billion and $2.781 billion, respectively, and it recorded applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains of $925 million and $283 million, respectively. Prudential Insurance must also notify the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance of its intent to pay a dividend or distribution. If the dividend or distribution, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds a specified statutory limit it is considered an extraordinary dividend or distribution and Prudential Insurance must obtain the prior non disapproval of the Department. The current statutory limitation applicable to New Jersey life insurers is generally the greater of 10% of the prior calendar years statutory surplus, which surplus was $10.042 billion as of December 31, 2009, or the prior calendar years statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses, which was $2.424 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Prudential Insurance and our other insurance subsidiaries may also be subject to additional company specific regulatory limitations and adjustments. In addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under certain other circumstances. Although Prudential Insurance had the capacity under the regulatory requirements to pay dividends to its parent in 2009, it did not declare or pay any dividends to its parent. The payment of dividends by Prudential Insurance to its parent in 2010 will depend on market conditions and other factors. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. Pursuant to Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain other restrictions that preclude Gibraltar Life from paying dividends to Prudential Financial in the near term. We anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life to pay such dividends. There are also regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, which began paying dividends in 2006. Further, deterioration in market conditions could adversely impact the capital positions of our international insurance companies, which could further restrict their ability to pay dividends. The ability of our asset management subsidiaries, and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries, to pay dividends is largely unrestricted. See Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries below for additional details on the liquidity of our domestic insurance subsidiaries, international insurance subsidiaries and asset management subsidiaries. Alternative Sources of Liquidity Prudential Financial maintains an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between the parent holding company and its affiliates on a daily basis. Depending on the overall availability of cash, the parent holding company invests excess cash on a short term basis or borrows funds in the capital markets. Additional longer term liquidity is available through inter affiliate borrowing arrangements. Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries also have access to bank facilities, as discussed under Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities, as well as the other alternative sources of liquidity described below. Commercial Paper Programs Prudential Financial has a commercial paper program currently rated A 1 by S&P, P 2 by Moodys and F2 by Fitch with an authorized capacity of $5.0 billion. Prudential Financial commercial paper borrowings have been generally used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financials subsidiaries and provide short term liquidity at Prudential Financial. Prudential Financials outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $146 million as of December 31, 2009, with a weighted average maturity of 47 days, of which 29% was overnight. This represents a decrease of $1.097 billion from December 31, 2008, largely due to the repayment of maturing commercial paper issued under the CPFF program described below and a reduction in the commercial paper supporting excess cash held at Prudential Financial. The daily average commercial paper outstanding during 2009 under this program was $564 million. The weighted average interest rate on these borrowings was 1.61% and 3.20% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 207 Table of Contents Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, has a commercial paper program currently rated A 1+ by S&P, P 2 by Moodys and F1 by Fitch with a current authorized capacity of $12.0 billion. Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $730 million as of December 31, 2009, with a weighted average maturity of 23 days, of which 19% was overnight. This represents a decrease of $3.624 billion from December 31, 2008, largely due to the elimination of investments in our enhanced short term portfolio and repayment of loans by our affiliates funded through a combination of asset sales, substitute funding from Prudential Financial from the proceeds of medium term notes and other internal sources of cash. As of December 31, 2009, the majority of the proceeds from outstanding commercial paper were held in cash and cash equivalents, while the remainder was primarily utilized to fund the working capital needs of our affiliates and short term cash flow timing mismatches. The daily average commercial paper outstanding during 2009 under this program was $2.362 billion. The weighted average interest rates on these borrowings were 0.77% and 2.50% for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Prudential Financial has issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings domestic commercial paper program. Both Prudential Financials and Prudential Fundings commercial paper programs were granted approval during the fourth quarter of 2008 to participate in the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Commercial paper programs were required to maintain ratings of at least A 1/P 1/F1 by at least two rating agencies in order to be eligible for the CPFF. Prudential Financial became ineligible to participate in the CPFF due to a commercial paper credit rating downgrade in February 2009. Access to the CPFF for all issuers was terminated by the Federal Reserve on February 1, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, neither Prudential Financial nor Prudential Funding had any commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF. We continue to see improvements in the capital markets, including increased demand in the short term markets. As a result, we have seen the credit markets begin to function in a more normalized fashion. However, rating agency actions in 2009 impacted our commercial paper programs. While the financing cost of Prudential Financials commercial paper remained elevated versus its historical cost basis relative to the target federal funds rate, this spread tightened significantly over the course of the year as investor demand for credit products increased. The financing cost of Prudential Fundings commercial paper remained elevated versus its historical cost basis relative to the target federal funds rate over the same period as a result of its commercial paper rating being placed on negative watch and eventually being downgraded by Moodys. Although we have experienced a reduction in investor demand for Prudential Fundings commercial paper versus historical levels, we have recently seen significant investor demand and spread compression as a split rated program. While we consider the availability of low cost and efficient financing that commercial paper provides as one of our alternative sources of liquidity, we have significantly reduced our reliance on commercial paper to fund our operations, and have developed plans which would enable us to further reduce, or if necessary eliminate, our borrowings under the Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding commercial paper programs through the use of other sources of liquidity. Both commercial paper programs are backed by our unsecured committed lines of credit. As of December 31, 2009, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.340 billion. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2009. For a further discussion of lines of credit, see Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities. Asset based Financing We conduct asset based or secured financing within our insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements, in order to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are driven by portfolio holdings in securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short term spread portfolios of our domestic insurance entities. Investments held in the short term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and fixed maturities, including mortgage and asset backed securities, with a 208 Table of Contents weighted average life at time of purchase of two years or less. A portion of the asset backed securities held in our short term spread portfolios, including our enhanced short term portfolio, are collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Floating rate assets comprise the majority of our short term spread portfolio. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities for a further discussion of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime holdings, including details regarding those securities held in our enhanced short term portfolio. These short term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other things, do not allow for significant asset/liability interest rate duration mismatch. As of December 31, 2009, our Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $5.532 billion under such programs, including $2.985 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $2.323 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $224 million representing securities sold but not yet purchased. Of the $5.532 billion for the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009, $2.809 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder generally has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 38 days. As of December 31, 2008, our Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $7.455 billion under such programs. As of December 31, 2009, our Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $3.888 billion under such programs, including $3.048 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $840 million representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the $3.888 billion for the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009, $2.330 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder generally has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 34 days. As of December 31, 2008, our Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.096 billion under such programs. As of December 31, 2009, our domestic insurance entities had assets eligible for the lending program of $74.9 billion, of which $8.3 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2009, we believe approximately $22.8 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable, of which approximately $16.0 billion relates to the Financial Services Business; however, these amounts are subject to potential regulatory constraints. Further changes in market conditions can affect the ability to lend the available assets. As referenced above, these programs are typically limited to securities in demand that can be loaned at relatively low financing rates. As such, we believe there is unused capacity available through these programs. Holdings of cash and cash equivalent investments in these short term spread portfolios allow for further flexibility in sizing the portfolio to better match available financing. Current conditions in both the financing and investment markets are continuously monitored in order to appropriately manage the cost of funds, investment spreads, asset/liability duration matching and liquidity. Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Prudential Insurance has been a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, since June 2008. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNYs product line of financial services, including collateralized advances, collateralized funding agreements and general asset/liability management that can be used for liquidity management and as an alternative source of funding. Our membership in FHLBNY requires us to maintain ownership of member stock and borrowings from FHLBNY require us to purchase FHLBNY activity based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings. Under FHLBNY guidelines, borrowings by its members are at the discretion of the FHLBNY. The FHLBNY requires Prudential Insurance to pledge qualifying mortgage related assets or U.S. Treasury securities as collateral for all borrowings. In May 2009, the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, or NJDOBI, revised its prior guidance to increase the maximum amount of qualifying assets that Prudential Insurance may pledge as collateral to the FHLBNY from 5% to 7% of its prior year end statutory net admitted assets exclusive of separate account assets; however, this limitation resets to 5% on December 31, 2010 unless extended by NJDOBI. Based on its statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2008, the 7% limitation 209 Table of Contents equates to a maximum amount of pledged assets of $10.5 billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity, after taking into account applicable required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBNY stock, of approximately $8.7 billion. However, the ability to borrow from the FHLBNY is subject to the availability and maintenance of qualifying assets at Prudential Insurance, and there is no assurance that Prudential Insurance will have sufficient qualifying assets available to it in order to access the increased capacity in full at any particular time. Also, the revised guidance from NJDOBI limits the aggregate amount of assets Prudential Insurance may pledge for all loans, including borrowings from the FHLBNY, to 10% of its prior year end statutory net admitted assets exclusive of separate account assets; however, this limitation excludes certain activities, such as the asset based financing transactions described above. The fair value of the qualifying assets pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance must be maintained at certain specified levels of the borrowed amount, which can vary, depending on the nature of the assets pledged. If the fair value of the collateral declines below these levels or if assets previously pledged cease to qualify under FHLBNY guidelines (such as due to ratings downgrades on mortgage backed securities), Prudential Insurance could be required to pledge additional collateral or repay outstanding borrowings. If at the time of a proposed borrowing, or at a time when required to pledge additional collateral in respect of outstanding borrowings, Prudential Insurance had insufficient qualifying assets, it would need to obtain and pledge additional mortgage related assets and or Treasury securities through asset purchases, reacquiring assets on loan or otherwise, subject to availability on appropriate terms. As of December 31, 2009, we had pledged qualifying assets with a fair value of $3.9 billion, which supported outstanding borrowings in the form of collateralized advances and collateralized funding agreements of $3.5 billion. The fair value of qualifying assets that were available but not pledged amounted to $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. In February and March 2009, Prudential Insurance issued collateralized funding agreements in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion to the FHLBNY. The funding agreements, which are reflected in Policyholders account balances, have priority claim status above debt holders of Prudential Insurance. These funding agreements currently serve as a substitute funding source for a product of our Retirement segment, which earns investment spread that was previously funded by retail medium term notes issued by Prudential Financial. This substitution allows Prudential Financial to use the proceeds from the sale of the corresponding retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes. To effect the substitution, during the first and second quarters of 2009, $1.015 billion and $507 million, respectively, of intercompany funding agreements that were previously issued by Prudential Insurance to Prudential Financial were terminated for payments of $730 million and $491 million, respectively, from Prudential Insurance to Prudential Financial. These payments represent the fair value of the funding agreements on the date of termination. We may conduct similar transactions, or take other actions, in future periods in order to utilize additional retail medium term notes proceeds for general corporate purposes. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, $2.0 billion of the FHLBNY advances outstanding are reflected in Short term debt with $1.0 billion maturing on June 4, 2010 and $1.0 billion maturing on December 6, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, proceeds from these advances of $300 million were invested in cash and short term investments at Prudential Insurance, $1.0 billion were used to support the operating needs of our businesses, $300 million were used as a replacement source of funding for a portion of capital requirements of Gibraltar Life, previously funded through foreign currency denominated unsecured bridge loan facilities, and the balance was used to purchase investments, including the requisite FHLBNY activity based stock. Prudential Insurance may, from time to time, borrow additional funds from FHLBNY for purposes of managing liquidity, making operating loans to affiliates, facilitating asset/liability management, or issuing funding agreements. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential Insurances claims paying ratings decline below certain levels, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from NJDOBI regarding Prudential Insurances solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Because Prudential Insurances rating from one rating agency is at the required minimum level and its other ratings are above the required minimum level, currently there is no restriction on the term of borrowings from the FHLBNY. Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company, or PRIAC, became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, or FHLBB, in December 2009. Membership allows PRIAC access to collateralized 210 Table of Contents advances which will be classified in short term debt or long term debt, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. PRIACs membership in FHLBB requires the ownership of member stock and borrowings from FHLBB require the purchase of FHLBB activity based stock in an amount between 3.0% and 4.5% of outstanding borrowings, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. As of December 31, 2009, PRIAC had no advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility. The Connecticut Department of Insurance, or CTDOI, granted PRIAC consent to pledge up to $2.6 billion in qualifying assets to secure borrowing through December 31, 2009 and recently granted an extension through December 31, 2011. PRIAC must seek re approval from CTDOI prior to borrowing additional funds after December 31, 2011. Based on eligible assets as of December 31, 2009, PRIAC had an estimated maximum borrowing capacity, after taking into consideration required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBB stock, of approximately $1.0 billion. Management of Capital In addition to selectively using an economic capital framework for making certain business decisions, we are in the process of refining our current capital management framework. These enhancements to the current framework, which is primarily based on statutory risk based capital measures, are designed to more appropriately reflect risks associated with our businesses. Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries General Liquidity Liquidity refers to a companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the needs of its operations. We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. We use a projection process for cash flows from operations to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet projected cash outflows, including claims. Liquidity is measured against internally developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset portfolio and the liabilities that they support. The results are affected substantially by the overall asset type and quality of our investments. We have received a request pursuant to the documentation for the disposition of our property and casualty operations completed in 2003 to deposit into a trust cash or securities for the purpose of securing insurance liabilities that were to have been transferred to Prudential Insurance following completion of the disposition but that have not been so transferred. We estimate that the amount of cash or securities to be deposited is approximately $500 million, and we are allowed to satisfy a portion of this requirement through the deposit of promissory notes received from the purchaser at the time of the disposition. We believe that the deposit of these assets would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance. Cash Flow The principal sources of liquidity for Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external borrowings. The principal uses of that liquidity include benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of liquidity include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and payments in connection with financing activities. 211 Table of Contents We believe that the cash flows from our insurance and annuity operations are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, and the relative safety of competing products (including those with enhancements under government sponsored programs), each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. In addition, market volatility can impact the level of capital required to support our businesses, particularly in our annuity business. Our domestic insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we also consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions $ 38,078 47 % $ 36,880 47 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment 20,570 26 20,341 26 At market value 1,598 2 1,279 2 At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more 4,166 5 4,048 5 Subtotal 64,412 80 62,548 80 Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5% 16,382 20 15,906 20 Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities $ 80,794 100 % $ 78,454 100 % Individual life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Our annuity reserves with guarantee features may be less susceptible to withdrawal than historical experience indicates, due to the perceived value of these guarantee features to policyholders as a result of recent market declines. Annuity benefits under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products were consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability management and the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, fixed maturities that are not designated as held to maturity and public equity securities. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our domestic insurance operations had liquid assets of $134.3 billion and $125.6 billion, respectively, which includes a portion financed with asset based financing. The portion of liquid assets comprised of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments was $11.1 billion and $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, $107.0 billion, or 89.4%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our domestic insurance company general account portfolios were considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. The remaining $12.7 billion, or 10.6%, of these fixed maturity investments were considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures in order to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy current liquidity requirements, including under foreseeable stress scenarios. 212 Table of Contents Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of claims. Our domestic insurance companies liquidity is managed through access to substantial investment portfolios as well as a variety of instruments available for funding and or managing cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses affecting results of operations. For a further discussion of realized investment gains or losses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. We believe that borrowing temporarily or selling investments earlier than anticipated will not have a material impact on the liquidity of our domestic insurance companies. Payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, respectively, in our financial statements. Instead of selling investments at depressed market prices externally, in order to preserve economic value (including tax attributes), we may also sell investments from one subsidiary to another at fair market value or transfer investments internally between businesses within the same subsidiary. Prudential Funding, LLC Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, serves as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to limits established with the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. To the extent that other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial have financing needs in excess of these limits, these needs are met through financing from Prudential Financial directly or from third parties. Prudential Funding operates under a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth at all times. Prudential Financial has also issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings domestic commercial paper program. Prudential Funding borrows funds primarily through the direct issuance of commercial paper. Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper, including master note borrowings, were $730 million as of December 31, 2009 and $4.354 billion as of December 31, 2008, and are more fully discussed above under Alternative Sources of Liquidity. The impact of Prudential Fundings financing capacity on liquidity is considered in the internal liquidity measures of the domestic insurance operations. The total principal amount of debt outstanding under Prudential Fundings domestic medium term note programs was $172 million as of both December 31, 2009 and 2008. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Fundings long term debt, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 0.78% and 4.03% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Capital The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurances RBC ratio to a level consistent with a AA ratings target. RBC is determined by statutory guidelines and formulas that consider, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance related risks associated with an insurers products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of an insurers statutory capitalization. As of December 31, 2009, RBC for Prudential Insurance was approximately 575%, which exceeded the minimum levels required by applicable insurance regulations. In addition, all of our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries have RBC ratios that exceed the minimum levels required by applicable insurance regulations. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities. 213 Table of Contents The level of statutory capital of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries can be materially impacted by interest rate and equity market fluctuations, changes in the values of derivatives, the level of impairments recorded, credit quality migration of the investment portfolio, among other items. Further, the recapture of business subject to reinsurance arrangements due to defaults by, or credit quality migration affecting, the reinsurers could result in higher required statutory capital levels. The level of statutory capital of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries is also affected by statutory accounting rules, which are subject to change by insurance regulators. The implementation of VACARVM, a new statutory reserve methodology for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits, effective December 31, 2009 did not have a material impact on the statutory surplus of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate. However, VACARVM resulted in higher statutory reserves ceded to our offshore captive reinsurance company, which increased statutory reserve credit requirements by approximately $635 million from the levels at December 31, 2008. In 2009, we satisfied the reinsurance reserve credit requirement through a combination of funding statutory reserve credit trusts with available cash of the captive reinsurer and proceeds from an inter company loan to the captive reinsurer from Prudential Insurance. Prudential Securities Group As a result of the negative impact of market dislocations on capital levels within Prudential Insurance experienced during 2008, we contributed Prudential Securities Group, LLC to Prudential Insurance to strengthen capital during the fourth quarter of 2008. This contribution increased Prudential Insurances net admitted assets by $2.2 billion. Prudential Securities Group owned our investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture until its sale on December 31, 2009 and continues to own other wholly owned businesses, principally our global commodities group. Distributions from the Wachovia Securities joint venture to Prudential Securities Group totaled $23 million and $104 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. At the closing, we received $4.5 billion in cash as the purchase price of our joint venture interest and de recognized the carrying value of our investment in the joint venture and the carrying value of the lookback option. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations includes the associated pre tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion. The proceeds from the sale are being held in cash and short term investments, reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, until such time as the proceeds, net of taxes, are invested longer term. In addition, following the closing, we received $418 million in payment of the principal of and accrued interest on the subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $417 million that had been issued by Wachovia Securities in connection with the establishment of the joint venture. For more information on our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, including the lookback option, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as Divested Businesses Financial Advisory. The other wholly owned businesses in Prudential Securities Group, principally our global commodities group, continue to maintain sufficiently liquid balance sheets, consisting mostly of cash and cash equivalents, segregated client assets, and short term receivables from clients, broker dealers, and exchanges. As registered broker dealers and members of various self regulatory organizations, our U.S. registered broker dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SECs Uniform Net Capital Rule, as well as the net capital requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the various securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. Compliance with these capital requirements could limit the ability of these operations to pay dividends. International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries In our international insurance operations, liquidity is provided through ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity, and the interest and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar to the discipline employed for domestic insurance subsidiaries. We monitor liquidity through the use of internal liquidity measures, taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. 214 Table of Contents As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our international insurance subsidiaries had total general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders) of $74.0 billion and $64.9 billion, respectively. Of those amounts, $41.1 billion and $34.7 billion, respectively, were associated with Gibraltar Life. Concurrent with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, substantially all of its insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges, which were initially 15%, have gradually declined each year and expired in April 2009. We did not experience any material increases in the level of surrenders due to the expiration of these surrender charges. Policies issued by Gibraltar Life post acquisition are generally subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value, less applicable surrender charges, which currently start at 5% or more. A special dividend is payable to certain Gibraltar Life policyholders based on 70% of the net increase in the fair value, through March 2009, of certain real estate and loans, net of transaction costs and taxes, included in the Gibraltar Life reorganization plan. The first special dividend was paid in 2005 and the final special dividend is payable generally on the next anniversary of the issue date of each applicable insurance policy, beginning in April 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Gibraltar made distributions to policyholders of $311 million in payment of the 2009 special dividend, primarily in the form of additional policy values, and to a lesser extent in cash. As of December 31, 2009, the remaining liability of $151 million related to the special dividend is included in Policyholders dividends and will be paid upon the applicable policy anniversary dates throughout the first and second quarter of 2010. Gibraltar Lifes investment portfolio continues to be structured to provide adequate liquidity for payment of the special dividend. On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of Yamatos insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges are 20% in the first year and will decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company Prudential Financial of Japan Life Insurance Company Ltd. The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, had $26.2 billion and $24.9 billion of general account insurance related liabilities, other than dividends to policyholders, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Prudential of Japan did not have a material amount of general account annuity reserves or deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2009 or 2008. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Prudential of Japan do not have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our international insurance subsidiaries had cash and short term investments of $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, and fixed maturity investments, other than those designated as held to maturity, with fair values of $58.2 billion and $49.3 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, $56.9 billion, or 98%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our international insurance subsidiaries were considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating, of which $41.3 billion, or 73%, were invested in government or government agency bonds. The remaining $1.3 billion, or 2%, of these fixed maturity investments were considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. Of those amounts, $32.2 billion of the high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rated fixed maturity investments and $0.9 billion of the other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rated fixed maturity investments were associated with Gibraltar Life. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate the adequacy of our international insurance operations liquidity under stress scenarios. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. 215 Table of Contents Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies. All of our international insurance subsidiaries have solvency margins in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities. These solvency margins are also a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. We manage these solvency margins to a capitalization level consistent with our AA ratings target. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, market conditions negatively impacted the level of capital in our international life insurance subsidiaries, particularly in Japan. To maintain our solvency ratios at or above the desired target level, we made capital contributions and capital loans of $366 million to our Japan life insurance subsidiaries during the first quarter of 2009. Maintenance of our solvency ratios at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurers financial strength. We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements, including the strategies discussed in Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. These hedging strategies include both internal and external hedging programs. The internal hedges are between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and certain of our yen based entities and serve to hedge the value of U.S. dollar denominated investments held on the books of these yen based entities. Cash settlements from these hedging activities result in cash flows between Prudential Financial and these yen based subsidiaries. The cash flows are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. During 2009, Prudential Financial funded $163 million of cash settlements related to the internal hedge program, which were paid to the yen based subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009 the market value of the internal hedges was a liability of $599 million owed to the yen based subsidiaries of Prudential Financial. Absent any changes in forward exchange rates from those expected as of December 31, 2009, the $599 million internal hedge liability represents the present value of the net cash flows from Prudential Financial to these entities over the life of the hedging instruments, up to 30 years. A significant yen appreciation over an extended period of time would result in higher net cash outflows from Prudential Financial in excess of our historical experience. Our external hedges serve to hedge the equity investments in certain subsidiaries and future income of most foreign subsidiaries. The external hedges are between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and external parties. Cash settlements on these activities result in cash flows between Prudential Financial and the external parties and are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates. During 2009, Prudential Financial paid $52 million of net cash flows for external hedge settlements. As of December 31, 2009, the net liability related to external foreign currency hedges was $160 million. A significant appreciation in yen and other foreign currencies could result in net cash outflows in excess of our liability. During the second quarter of 2009, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of our Korean operations due to a variety of considerations, including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from a strengthening Korean won. In our international investments operations, liquidity is provided through asset management fees as well as commission revenue. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses, and distributions of dividends and returns of capital. As with our domestic operations, the primary liquidity risks for our fee based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe cash flows from our international investments subsidiaries are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of their operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. Asset Management Subsidiaries Our asset management businesses, which include real estate, public and private fixed income and public equity asset management, as well as commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and retail investment products, such as mutual funds and other retail services, are largely unregulated from the standpoint of dividends 216 Table of Contents and distributions. Our asset management subsidiaries through which we conduct these businesses generally do not have restrictions on the amount of distributions they can make, and the fee based asset management business can provide a relatively stable source of cash flow to Prudential Financial. The principal sources of liquidity for our fee based asset management businesses include asset management fees and commercial mortgage servicing fees. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distribution of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks for our fee based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe the cash flows from our fee based asset management businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of their operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. The principal sources of liquidity for our proprietary investments and interim loans are cash flows from investments, the ability to liquidate investments, and available borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults. The current adverse market conditions have increased the liquidity risks associated with our proprietary investments and interim loans, as the markets for certain investments, such as commercial mortgages and real estate, have become less liquid. If we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. In December 2008, we received approval from NJDOBI for Prudential Insurance to provide an 18 month $1.5 billion lending facility to our commercial mortgage operation that is collateralized primarily by its interim loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the loan to value covenant of the facility. However, there is a risk that further deterioration in the collateral pledged under the facility could require posting of additional collateral or a partial pay down of the facility to bring the facility into compliance with its covenants. As of December 31, 2009, $0.6 billion was outstanding under this facility. In April 2009, our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business received approval to participate in a Fannie Mae alternative delivery program known as ASAP Plus (As Soon as Pooled delivery). Our approval limit for outstanding balances on ASAP Plus is presently $350 million. This program allows us to assign a qualified Fannie Mae loan trade commitment to Fannie Mae as early as the next business day after a loan closes, and receive 99% of the loan purchase price from Fannie Mae. The program does not eliminate the need to provide temporary warehouse financing, but does significantly reduce the duration of funding requirements for eligible Fannie Mae originated loans from the normal delivery cycle of two to four weeks down to as little as one to two days. During 2009, in our proprietary investing business, we received repayments of real estate loans secured by equity commitments from investors and assets of funds managed by us, and we reduced exposure to certain public equity and real estate seed investments. The proceeds of these activities, which totaled $1.0 billion, were used to repay financing provided by Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding. Certain real estate funds under management are held for the benefit of clients in insurance company separate accounts sponsored by Prudential Insurance. In the normal course of business, these separate accounts enter into purchase commitments which include commitments to purchase real estate, invest in future real estate partnerships, and or fund additional construction or other expenditures on previously acquired real estate investments. Certain purchases of real estate are contingent on the developers development of the real estate according to plans and specifications outlined in a pre sale agreement or the property achieving a certain level of leasing. Purchase commitments are typically entered into by Prudential Insurance on behalf of the particular separate account and, upon acquisition, are titled either in Prudential Insurance or an LLC subsidiary formed for that purpose. In certain cases, the commitments specify that recourse on the obligation is limited to the assets of the separate account. 217 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009 and 2008, total outstanding purchase commitments were $8.7 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively. The decrease was mainly attributable to the repayment of commitment obligations by the separate accounts during 2009. The following is a summary of the outstanding purchase commitments for these separate account portfolios as of December 31, 2009: Contractual Maturity Date Separate Account Purchase Commitments 2010 2011 After 2011 Total (in millions) Recourse to Prudential Insurance $ 2,814 $ 632 $ 451 $ 3,897 Recourse limited to assets of separate accounts 2,671 1,941 198 4,810 Total $ 5,485 $ 2,573 $ 649 $ 8,707 The contractual maturity dates of some of the outstanding purchase commitments may accelerate upon a failure to maintain required loan to value ratios, upon the downgrade of ratings applicable to the separate account funds or upon the failure to satisfy other financial covenants. Of the $8.7 billion of total commitments reflected in the table above, $4.7 billion represents off balance sheet commitments, of which $2.0 billion have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. These separate accounts have also entered into syndicated credit facilities providing for borrowings in the aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion, of which $0.2 billion was outstanding at December 31, 2009. These facilities also include loan to value ratio requirements and other financial covenants. Recourse on obligations under these facilities is limited to the assets of the applicable separate account. As of December 31, 2009, these separate account portfolios had a combined gross and net asset value of $23.4 billion and $11.3 billion, respectively. At the time of maturity of a commitment obligation, Prudential Insurance often endeavors to negotiate extensions, refinancings or other solutions with creditors. Management believes that the separate accounts have sufficient resources to ultimately meet their obligations. However, because of the recent volatility and disruption in the credit and real estate capital markets, the separate accounts may not be able to timely fund all maturing obligations from regular sources such as asset sales, operating cash flow, deposits from clients, debt refinancings or from the above mentioned portfolio level credit facilities. In cases where the separate account is not able to fund maturing obligations, Prudential Insurance may be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions. Prudential Insurance did not provide any such funding in 2009. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our asset management subsidiaries had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $646 million and $1.192 billion, respectively, which include $1 million and $462 million of loans secured by investor equity commitments or fund assets, respectively. The $1 million as of December 31, 2009 reflects a decrease of $461 million, of which $120 million came primarily from paydowns and $341 million came from the reclassification of certain secured loans to other long term investments due to the Companys decision to extend the loans beyond their original maturity dates. The extension of these loans primarily occurred in the third quarter of 2009. Financing Activities In March 2009, Prudential Financial filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a Well Known Seasoned Issuer under SEC rules, Prudential Financials shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing, pay as you go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendments. Also, in accordance with these rules, the shelf registration statement has no stated issuance capacity. In June 2009, Prudential Financial issued 36,858,975 shares of its Common Stock (which number includes the exercise in full of the underwriters option to purchase up to an additional 4,807,692 shares of Common Stock) in a public offering at a price of $39.00 per share for gross proceeds of $1.438 billion. The net proceeds from this offering of $1.391 billion were used for general corporate purposes, a portion of which is currently held in cash and cash equivalents at Prudential Financial. 218 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, total short and long term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was $24.2 billion and $30.8 billion, respectively, which as shown below includes $14.7 billion and $16.6 billion, respectively, related to the parent company, Prudential Financial. Prudential Financial Borrowings Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital and other funding needs, as well as the capital and other funding needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, other than debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt: Commercial paper $ 146 $ 1,243 Floating rate convertible senior notes 2 2,131 Foreign currency denominated bridge loan facility 816 Current portion of long term debt 55 264 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 9,725 7,255 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,518 1,518 Retail medium term notes 3,222 3,413 Total general obligations $ 14,668 $ 16,640 The following table presents, as of December 31, 2009, Prudential Financials contractual maturities of its general obligation long term debt: Calendar Year Senior Debt Junior SubordinatedDebt Retail Medium term Notes (in millions) 2011 $ 350 $ $ 134 2012 850 114 2013 1,100 204 2014 1,500 127 2015 and thereafter 5,925 1,518 2,643 Total $ 9,725 $ 1,518 $ 3,222 In March 2009, Prudential Financial filed an updated prospectus supplement for its Medium Term Notes, Series D program under the shelf registration statement. The authorized issuance capacity under the Series D program is $10.0 billion, and as of December 31, 2009, approximately $2.6 billion remained available under the program. In June 2009, we issued $250 million of 6.20% notes due January 2015 and $750 million of 7.375% notes due June 2019, and in September 2009 we issued $900 million of 4.75% notes due September 2015 and $600 million of 3.625% notes due September 2012 under this program. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials medium term and senior notes, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 5.51% and 5.41% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. In addition, on January 14, 2010, we issued $500 million of 2.75% notes due January 2013 and $750 million of 3.875% notes due January 2015 under the Medium Term Notes, Series D program. Proceeds from these issuances will be used to replace a portion of borrowings from the FHLBNY which matures in June 2010 and the remainder will be used for general corporate purposes. In March 2009, Prudential Financial filed an updated prospectus supplement under the shelf registration statement for its retail medium term notes, including the InterNotes&reg; program. The authorized issuance capacity under the current retail medium term notes program is $5.0 billion, and as of December 31, 2009, approximately $2.5 billion remained available under this program. This retail medium term notes program has served as a 219 Table of Contents funding source for a product of our Retirement segment for which we earn investment spread that is economically similar to funding agreement backed medium term notes issued to institutional investors, except that the retail notes are senior unsecured obligations of Prudential Financial and are primarily purchased by retail investors. However, beginning in the first quarter of 2009, some of the proceeds from prior sales of retail medium term notes are being used for general corporate purposes and funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY are being used as a substitute funding source for the asset portfolio within the Retirement segment, as discussed in more detail in Prudential Financial Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials retail medium term notes were 5.50% and 5.99% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. Our retail medium term notes program has been negatively impacted by the disruptions in the credit markets. The decline in demand for risk bearing investments among retail investors, and the related increase in funding costs, has resulted in a halt in new debt issuances under this program. As the market dislocations abate and investor demand improves, we may resume issuances under the program. In February 2009, Prudential Financial repaid at maturity &yen;74 billion borrowed under unsecured bridge loan facilities provided by two institutions using internal sources of cash. The net proceeds had been used to repay maturing debt that was issued concurrently with our acquisition of Gibraltar Life in April 2001, which served to fund capital requirements of Gibraltar Life. This requirement is now funded through a combination of borrowings from the FHLBNY, long term debt of Prudential Funding, and internal sources of cash. In June and July 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated notes to institutional investors and $920 million of 9.0% fixed rate junior subordinated notes to retail investors. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of notes have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. In connection with the issuance of both series of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a replacement capital covenant, or RCC, for the benefit of holders of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agrees that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase the notes prior to June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities, which include, but are not limited to, hybrid capital securities and common stock. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these junior subordinated notes. In December 2007, Prudential Financial issued in a private placement $3.0 billion of floating rate convertible senior notes that are convertible by the holders at any time after issuance into cash and shares of Prudential Financials Common Stock at a conversion price of $132.39 per share, subject to adjustment upon certain corporate events. The interest rate on these notes is 3 month LIBOR minus 1.63%, with a minimum interest rate of 0%. Holders of the notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes, at par plus accrued interest, on contractually specified dates. On the first such date, June 15, 2009, $1.819 billion of the notes were repurchased by Prudential Financial and on the next such date, December 15, 2009, $31 million of the notes were repurchased. The next date on which holders of these notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase these notes is December 15, 2010. During the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009, the Company repurchased, in individually negotiated transactions, $853 million and $297 million, respectively, of these notes which were offered to the Company by certain holders. In addition, certain of the floating rate convertible senior notes that were issued by Prudential Financial in a private placement in December 2006 remain outstanding. The next date on which holders of these notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase these notes is December 12, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, a total of $2 million of floating rate convertible senior notes remain outstanding. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning convertible senior notes. Prudential Financial also maintains a Euro medium term notes program under which it is authorized to issue up to $1.5 billion of notes. As of December 31, 2009, there was no debt outstanding under this program. Consolidated Borrowings Current capital markets activities for the Company on a consolidated basis principally consist of unsecured short term and long term borrowings by Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, unsecured third party bank borrowings, and asset based or secured financing. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table below. 220 Table of Contents The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt(1) $ 3,122 $ 10,197 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 13,199 11,054 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,518 1,518 Surplus notes(3) 4,141 3,644 Other(2) 2,000 Total general obligation long term debt 18,858 18,216 Total general obligations 21,980 28,413 Limited and non recourse borrowing: Limited and non recourse short term debt 338 Limited and non recourse long term debt(4) 2,179 2,074 Total limited and non recourse borrowing 2,179 2,412 Total borrowings(5) 24,159 30,825 Total asset based financing 9,420 12,551 Total borrowings and asset based financings $ 33,579 $ 43,376 (1) As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 $2.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of short term debt represent collateralized advances with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. (2) Reflects collateralized advances with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. (3) As of both December 31, 2009 and 2008, includes $3.2 billion of floating rate surplus notes issued by subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance to fund regulatory reserves, as well as $941 million and $444 million, respectively, of fixed rate surplus notes issued by Prudential Insurance. (4) As of both December 31, 2009 and 2008, $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse long term debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business. In addition, long term debt as of December 31, 2009 reflects $429 million of secured financing related to TALF, which is discussed in more detail below. (5) Does not include $4.9 billion and $7.1 billion of medium term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such notes as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or $1.5 billion of collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York as of December 31, 2009. These notes and funding agreements are included in Policyholders account balances. For additional information on the trust notes, see Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program and for additional information on the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York funding agreements, see Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. On September 18, 2009, Prudential Insurance issued in a private placement $500 million of surplus notes due September 2019, with an interest rate of 5.36% per annum, that are exchangeable by the holders for shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding these exchangeable surplus notes. The proceeds from the sale of these surplus notes are currently held in cash and cash equivalents and are expected to be used for general corporate purposes at Prudential Insurance. Total general debt obligations decreased by $6.4 billion from December 31, 2008 to 2009, primarily due to a reduction in short term debt. The primary drivers of the reduction in short term debt were the reduction in outstanding Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding commercial paper, as further described in Alternative Sources of Liquidity, the repayment of &yen;74 billion borrowed under unsecured bridge loan facilities described earlier, the repurchase of a substantial portion of our convertible senior notes and maturities of our medium term notes. During 2009, we purchased securities under the Federal Reserves Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. The TALF is designed to provide secured financing for the acquisition of certain types of asset backed securities, including certain high quality commercial mortgage backed securities issued before January 1, 2009. TALF financing is non recourse to the borrower, is collateralized by the purchased securities 221 Table of Contents and provides financing for the purchase price of the securities, less a haircut that varies based on the type of collateral. Borrowers under the program can deliver the collateralized securities to a special purpose vehicle created by the Federal Reserve in full defeasance of the loan. During 2009, the Company obtained $1.167 billion of secured financing from the Federal Reserve under this program. In the third and fourth quarters of 2009, the Company sold a portion of the securities purchased under the program and used the proceeds to repay $188 million and $550 million of the borrowings, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, $466 million of securities purchased under TALF are reflected within Other trading account assets, and $429 million of secured financing from the Federal Reserve related to the purchase of these securities are reflected within Long term debt. The Company is carrying both the securities and the debt at fair value. The NAIC has adopted a Model Regulation entitled Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Regulation XXX, and a supporting Guideline entitled The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Guideline AXXX. The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX on our term and universal life insurance business, including actions that are described in more detail below. During 2006, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into a surplus note purchase agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides for the issuance of up to $3.0 billion of ten year floating rate surplus notes through 2016, if certain conditions are met (commonly referred to as XXX notes), for the purpose of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain term life insurance policies. In connection with this financing arrangement, Prudential Financial has agreed with such subsidiary that it or certain of its affiliates will make capital contributions to such subsidiary as necessary to maintain the capital of such subsidiary at or above a prescribed minimum level. Concurrent with the issuance of each surplus note, Prudential Financial enters into arrangements with the buyer, which are accounted for as derivative instruments, that may result in payments by, or to, Prudential Financial over the term of the surplus notes, to the extent there are significant changes in the value of the surplus notes. Principal factors that impact the value of the surplus notes are mortality experience and interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, there have been no payments made under the derivative instrument. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. Total outstanding notes under this facility was $2.7 billion both as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During 2007, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance issued $500 million of 45 year floating rate surplus notes (commonly referred to as AXXX notes) to an unaffiliated financial institution for the purpose of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain universal life insurance policies. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In connection with this financing arrangement, Prudential Financial has agreed with such subsidiary that it or certain of its affiliates will make capital contributions to such subsidiary as necessary to maintain the capital of such subsidiary at or above a prescribed minimum level. Concurrent with the issuance of these surplus notes, Prudential Financial entered into a credit derivative that requires Prudential Financial to make certain payments in the event of deterioration in the value of the surplus note. Under this credit derivative, we are required to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10 year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financials senior debt. As of December 31, 2009, no collateral amounts were required to be paid. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs in 2010 to finance statutory reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. Several strategies are currently under review to reduce the strain of increased AXXX and XXX statutory reserves associated with our 222 Table of Contents term and universal life products. The activities we may undertake to mitigate or address these needs include obtaining letters of credit, entering into reinsurance transactions or executing other capital market strategies; however, our ability to successfully execute these strategies will depend on market conditions. Based on current market conditions, and absent any successful mitigation efforts, we currently believe that our financing need for 2010 could be up to $900 million for XXX and AXXX combined; however this need is expected to be met with a combination of the activities described. Also, this amount will fluctuate as a result of sales levels. If we are unsuccessful in satisfying or mitigating this strain as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this financing need could require us to increase prices and or reduce our sales of term or universal life products and or have a negative impact on our capital position. Our total borrowings consist of capital debt, investment related debt, securities business related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Capital debt is borrowing that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of Prudential Financial as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our individual annuity business, real estate franchises and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. Consolidated borrowings as of both December 31, 2009 and 2008 included $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse debt attributable to the Closed Block Business. The following table summarizes our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of the dates indicated: December 31,2009 December 31,2008 (in millions) General obligations: Capital debt $ 8,453 $ 7,535 Investment related 9,245 16,480 Securities business related 2,298 3,356 Specified other businesses 1,984 1,042 Total general obligations 21,980 28,413 Limited and non recourse debt 2,179 2,412 Total borrowings $ 24,159 $ 30,825 Short term debt $ 3,122 $ 10,535 Long term debt 21,037 20,290 Total borrowings $ 24,159 $ 30,825 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 22,409 $ 28,632 Borrowings of Closed Block Business 1,750 2,193 Total borrowings $ 24,159 $ 30,825 We may, from time to time, seek to redeem or repurchase our outstanding debt securities through individually negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity position, contractual restrictions and other factors. Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program In 2003, Prudential Insurance established a Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium term notes (which are included in our statements of financial position in Policyholders account balances and not included in the foregoing table) secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance and included in our Retirement segment. The funding agreements 223 Table of Contents provide cash flow sufficient for the debt service on the related medium term notes. The medium term notes are sold in transactions not requiring registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The notes have fixed or floating interest rates and original maturities ranging from two to seven years. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes totaled $4.9 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively, out of a total authorized amount of up to $15 billion. The decrease in outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes is due to maturities in excess of issuances during 2009. Our ability to issue under this program will depend on market conditions. The aggregate maturities of these notes over the next 12 months are approximately $1.46 billion. We intend to repay the maturing notes through a combination of cash flows from asset maturities, asset sales, new liability origination and internal sources of funds. Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2009, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.34 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $1.94 billion 5 year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 21 financial institutions, and a $2.4 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.2 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions. The available credit and number of lenders reflects the removal in January 2009 of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. for $60 million and Lehman Brothers Bank FSB for $100 million as participants in these facilities. We maintain these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under either facility as of December 31, 2009. Any borrowings made under these outstanding facilities would mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and would bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financials maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on U.S. GAAP stockholders equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. As of December 31, 2009, Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital and Prudential Financials consolidated U.S. GAAP stockholders equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, exceeded the minimum amounts required to borrow under these facilities. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions. Ratings Claims paying and credit ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. National Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations continually review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including Prudential Insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. Our credit ratings are also important for our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and for the cost of such financing. 224 Table of Contents Claims paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entitys ability to repay its indebtedness. The following table summarizes the ratings for Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. A.M.Best(1) S&P(2) Moodys(3) Fitch(4) Insurance Claims Paying Ratings: The Prudential Insurance Company of America A+ AA A2 A+ PRUCO Life Insurance Company A+ AA A2 A+ PRUCO Life Insurance Company of New Jersey A+ AA NR * A+ Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation A+ AA NR A+ Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company A+ AA A2 A+ The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (Prudential of Japan) NR AA NR NR Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. NR AA A2 NR Credit Ratings: Prudential Financial, Inc.: Short term borrowings AMB 1 A 1 P 2 F2 Long term senior debt(5) a A Baa2 BBB Junior subordinated long term debt bbb BBB+ Baa3 BBB The Prudential Insurance Company of America: Capital and surplus notes a A Baa1 A Prudential Funding, LLC: Short term debt AMB 1 A 1+ P 2 F1 Long term senior debt a+ AA A3 A PRICOA Global Funding I: Long term senior debt aa AA A2 A+ * NR indicates not rated. (1) A.M. Best Company, which we refer to as A.M. Best, claims paying ratings for insurance companies currently range from A++ (superior) to F (in liquidation). A.M. Bests ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance companys financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. An A.M. Best long term credit rating is an opinion of the ability of an obligor to pay interest and principal in accordance with the terms of the obligation. A.M. Best long term credit ratings range from aaa (exceptional) to d (in default), with ratings from aaa to bbb considered as investment grade. An A.M. Best short term credit rating reflects an opinion of the issuers fundamental credit quality. Ratings range from AMB 1+, which represents an exceptional ability to repay short term debt obligations, to AMB 4, which correlates with a speculative (bb) long term rating. (2) Standard & Poors Rating Services, which we refer to as S&P, claims paying ratings currently range from AAA (extremely strong) to R (regulatory supervision). These ratings reflect S&Ps opinion of an operating insurance companys financial capacity to meet the obligations of its insurance policies in accordance with their terms. A + or indicates relative strength within a category. An S&P credit rating is a current opinion of the creditworthiness of an obligor with respect to a specific financial obligation, a specific class of financial obligations or a specific financial program. S&Ps long term issue credit ratings range from AAA (extremely strong) to D (default). S&P short term ratings range from A 1 (highest category) to D (default). (3) Moodys Investors Service, Inc., which we refer to as Moodys, insurance claims paying ratings currently range from Aaa (exceptional) to C (lowest). Moodys insurance ratings reflect the ability of insurance companies to repay punctually senior policyholder claims and obligations. Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are used to indicate relative strength within a category. Moodys credit ratings currently range from Aaa (highest) to C (default). Moodys credit ratings grade debt according to its investment quality. Moodys considers A1, A2 and A3 rated debt to be upper medium grade obligations, subject to low credit risk. Moodys short term ratings are opinions of the ability of issuers to honor senior financial obligations and contracts. Prime ratings range from Prime 1 (P 1), which represents a superior ability for repayment of senior short term debt obligations, to Prime 3 (P 3), which represents an acceptable ability for repayment of such obligations. Issuers rated Not Prime do not fall within any of the Prime rating categories. (4) Fitch Ratings Ltd., which we refer to as Fitch, claims paying ratings currently range from AAA (exceptionally strong) to D (distressed). Fitchs ratings reflect its assessment of the likelihood of timely payment of policyholder and contractholder obligations. Fitch long term credit ratings currently range from AAA (highest credit quality), which denotes exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, to D (default). Investment grade ratings range between AAA and BBB. Short term ratings range from F1 (highest credit quality) to C (high default risk). Within long term and short term ratings, a + or a may be appended to a rating to denote relative status within major rating categories. (5) Includes the retail medium term notes program. 225 Table of Contents The ratings set forth above with respect to Prudential Financial, Prudential Funding, LLC, Prudential Insurance and our other insurance and financing subsidiaries reflect current opinions of each rating organization with respect to claims paying ability, financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders or debt holders, as the case may be. These ratings are of concern to policyholders, agents and intermediaries. They are not directed toward shareholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. These ratings are reviewed periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Our claims paying ratings are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. The interest rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings. A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e., claims paying) ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities. Therefore, changes in our credit ratings and our claims paying ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. Additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels as of December 31, 2009 would result in estimated additional collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $185 million as of December 31, 2009. The amount of collateral required to be posted for derivative agreements is also dependent on the fair value of the derivative positions as of the balance sheet date. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of a ratings downgrade on our derivative agreements see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.3 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to an acquired business, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $18 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance. Rating agencies use an outlook statement for both industry sectors and individual companies. For an industry sector, a negative outlook generally implies that over the next 12 18 months, the rating agency expects more downgrades than upgrades among companies in the sector. However, such an outlook does not imply that all, or even a majority of, companies will necessarily experience ratings downgrades. For a particular company, an outlook generally indicates a medium or long term trend (generally six months to two years) in credit fundamentals, which if continued, may lead to a rating change. These indicators are not necessarily a precursor of a rating change nor do they preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. Moodys, S&P, Fitch and A.M. Best each continue to have the U.S. life insurance sector on negative outlook, which began in late 2008 as conditions in the economy deteriorated. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, the rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels, such as the financial strength ratings currently held by our life insurance subsidiaries. In addition, actions we might take to access third party financing or to realign our capital structure may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. Provided below is a discussion of the significant changes in our ratings or rating outlooks that occurred from the beginning of 2009 through the date of this filing. 226 Table of Contents On February 10, 2009, Moodys placed the long term ratings of Prudential Financial and our life insurance subsidiaries on review for possible downgrade. The short term ratings of Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding were affirmed with a stable outlook. On March 18, 2009, Moodys lowered the long term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial to Baa2 from A3 and lowered the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries to A2 from Aa3, with a negative outlook. Moodys also placed the short term debt rating of Prudential Funding on review for possible downgrade. On June 26, 2009, Moodys affirmed the long term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at Baa2 and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at A2, and revised the outlook from negative to stable. The short term debt rating of Prudential Funding remained on review for possible downgrade. On August 20, 2009, Moodys downgraded the short term debt rating for commercial paper of Prudential Funding to P 2 from P 1, concluding the review for downgrade that was initiated on March 18, 2009. The outlook for this rating was revised to stable. On February 19, 2009, Fitch lowered Prudential Financials long term senior debt rating to BBB from A and the short term rating to F2 from F1. Fitch also downgraded the financial strength ratings of the life insurance subsidiaries to A+ from AA and the short term rating of Prudential Funding to F1 from F1+. The outlook for all ratings remained negative. On December 21, 2009, Fitch affirmed the long term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at BBB and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at A+, and revised the outlook from negative to stable. On February 17, 2009, S&P lowered Prudential Financials long term senior debt rating to A from A+ and affirmed the AA ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries. The long term ratings outlook was revised from stable to negative. On February 26, 2009, S&P lowered the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries to AA from AA and affirmed Prudential Financials long term senior debt ratings as A. The outlook for both ratings was revised from negative to stable. On June 3, 2009, S&P affirmed Prudential Financials long term senior debt rating at A and short term rating at A 1. S&P also affirmed the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at AA and the short term debt rating of Prudential Funding at A 1+. The outlook for all of these ratings remains stable. On May 27, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of our life subsidiaries at A+, and affirmed Prudential Financials long term senior debt rating at a . The outlook for both was revised from stable to negative. 227 Table of Contents Contractual Obligation The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on managements estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows. Estimated Payments Due by Period Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andthereafter (in millions) Short term and long term debt obligations(1) $ 36,992 $ 4,228 $ 4,102 $ 7,585 $ 21,077 Operating lease obligations(2) 797 190 309 190 108 Purchase obligations: Commitments to purchase or fund investments(3) 8,715 6,088 2,164 184 279 Commercial mortgage loan commitments(4) 1,664 1,035 550 44 35 Other liabilities: Insurance liabilities(5) 1,044,274 39,550 63,592 65,192 875,940 Other(6) 10,015 9,420 595 Total $ 1,102,457 $ 60,511 $ 71,312 $ 73,195 $ 897,439 (1) The estimated payments due by period for long term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. The estimate for future interest payments includes the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short term and long term debt. (2) The estimated payments due by period for operating leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases, as disclosed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no significant capital lease obligations. (3) As discussed in Note 23, we have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlement of these obligations are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include $4.674 billion that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. Of these separate account commitments, $1.991 billion have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. For further discussion of these separate account commitments, see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. (4) As discussed in Note 23, loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment; however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration. In certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee. (5) The estimated payments due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances, policyholders dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities. These future estimated cash outflows are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience, consider future premium receipts on current policies in force, and assume market growth and interest crediting consistent with assumptions used in amortizing deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired. These cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest and, as a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $1,044 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $404 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2009. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash outflows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, actual cash outflows will differ, possibly materially, from these estimates. (6) The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, and other miscellaneous liabilities. We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2009. 228 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees and Other Contingencies In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently required to make payments now or in the future. See Commitments and Guarantees within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Contingent Commitments We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. See Commitments and Guarantees within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these commitments. For further discussion of certain of these commitments that relate to our separate accounts, also see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets. 229 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. The market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. Certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. While a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. As part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation requirements, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. For a discussion of asset based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. 230 Table of Contents For risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on our capital adequacy and liquidity. This testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. The regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. Changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. For additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long term savings, protection and other investment products. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see Item 1A. Risk Factors. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. As part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk, or VaR, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance and Annuities Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. For additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Management of Investments. We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our U.S. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. 231 Table of Contents Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2009 and 73% as of December 31, 2008. With respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk free rate. The following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. As of December 31, 2009 Notional FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange inFair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities(1) $ 196,473 $ 183,631 $ (12,842 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 30,693 29,553 (1,140 ) Policy loans 11,837 11,142 (695 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 114,601 (259 ) (1,876 ) (1,617 ) Futures 3,987 (1 ) (100 ) (99 ) Options 4,809 623 534 (89 ) Forwards 13,507 (15 ) (26 ) (11 ) Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (55 ) 534 589 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (24,054 ) (22,284 ) 1,770 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (239 ) (239 ) Investment contracts (74,353 ) (72,198 ) 2,155 Bank customer liabilities (1,538 ) (1,526 ) 12 Net estimated potential loss $ (11,967 ) 232 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008 Notional FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange inFair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities(1) $ 174,724 $ 163,212 $ (11,512 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 30,570 29,474 (1,096 ) Policy loans 12,697 11,782 (915 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 100,331 1,853 393 (1,460 ) Futures 7,345 (50 ) (301 ) (251 ) Options 5,371 1,895 1,758 (137 ) Forwards 9,996 (143 ) (188 ) (45 ) Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (3,229 ) (2,255 ) 974 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (27,051 ) (25,227 ) 1,824 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (167 ) (167 ) Investment contracts (69,933 ) (67,882 ) 2,051 Bank customer liabilities (1,354 ) (1,347 ) 7 Net estimated potential loss $ (10,560 ) (1) Includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under U.S. GAAP, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) The hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) Included in Other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. The tables above do not include approximately $154 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2009 and $152 billion as of December 31, 2008 which are not considered financial liabilities. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. Our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of December 31, 2009 increased $1,407 million from December 31, 2008, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2009. The increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2009 was primarily due to a net increase in fair value driven by credit spread tightening, portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income, the impact of foreign currency, and the acquisition of Yamato Life. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 for U.S. equities. For foreign equities we benchmark against the Tokyo Price Index, or TOPIX, and the MSCI EAFE, a market index of European, Australian, and Far Eastern equities. We target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of December 31, 2009 was $809 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $8.091 billion to $7.282 billion. Our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of December 31, 2008 was $680 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities 233 Table of Contents we held at that date from $6.803 billion to $6.123 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. In addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2009, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $7.126 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $532 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $55 million liability. As of December 31, 2008, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $7.353 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $1.908 billion asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $3.229 billion liability. Our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, net of the related equity based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $61 million benefit as of December 31, 2009 and a less than $10 million benefit as of December 31, 2008, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. The higher sensitivity level as of December 31, 2009 primarily reflects the impact of our own risk on non performance on the embedded derivative liabilities, which does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non performance on the valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, we expanded our hedging program in the second quarter of 2009 to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges primarily consist of equity based total return swaps, as well as interest rate derivatives, that are designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. Our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of December 31, 2009 was a $104 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. These scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. In addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. The impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into U.S. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 234 Table of Contents Our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations primarily in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Europe. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. To mitigate potential losses due to fluctuations in these exchange rates, for our equity investments in our International operations other than in Japan and Taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. For our equity investments in our Japanese and Taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding U.S. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. Third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in U.S. dollar denominated investments. Most significantly, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. For a discussion of our Japanese operations U.S. dollar denominated investment holdings, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Portfolio Composition, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. We manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. Foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using VaR based analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2009 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $95 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.188 billion to $3.093 billion. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2008 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $108 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.033 billion to $925 million. Despite a reduction in our hedging activities related to our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, primarily related to our Korean insurance subsidiary, the estimated one month VaR as of December 31, 2009 decreased in comparison to the prior year due to a significant reduction in exchange rate volatility in 2009. This decrease in volatility drove the reduction in our hedging activities, which resulted in an increase in unhedged foreign currency assets as of December 31, 2009. The average VaR for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $114 million during 2009 and $70 million during 2008. The average one month VaR for 2009 increased in comparison to 2008 due to the reduction in hedging activities discussed above and the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during the first half of 2009. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. The estimated VaR for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $129 million as of December 31, 2009 and $148 million as of December 31, 2008. The decreased VaR for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects decreased volatility in exchange rates for Japanese yen and Korean won. 235 Table of Contents Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. We are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. The notional amount of derivative instruments increased $14 billion in 2009, from $123 billion as of December 31, 2008 to $137 billion as of December 31, 2009, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities, and an increase in investment only, fee based stable value products sold in our retirement segment, which are accounted for as derivatives. We use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and in limited instances purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. For additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities. Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. We maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts and are generally short term in duration. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. The total VaR for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $2 million as of December 31, 2009 and $1 million as of December 31, 2008. The largest component of this total VaR as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was related to commodities price risk. The total average daily VaR for our trading activities 236 Table of Contents considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million during 2009 and $1 million during 2008. The largest component of both periods total average daily VaR was related to commodities price risk. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, VaR models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 237 Table of Contents 
 
